---
id: 8.404
title: "8.404 (h)"
sidebar_label: "8.404"
---

# 8.404 (h)

(iii) Request for quotation procedures . The ordering activity  must  provide a RFQ, which includes the

statement of work and evaluation criteria ( e.g., experience and past performance ), to schedule

contractors that offer  services that will meet the agency’s needs. The RFQ may be posted to GSA’s

electronic RFQ system, e-Buy (see [8.402](/part-8/8.402) (d)).

(iv) If the estimated value of the BPA does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold . The

ordering activity  shall  provide the RFQ (including the statement of work and evaluation criteria) to

at least three schedule contractors that offer  services that will meet the agency’s needs.

(v) If estimated value of the BPA exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold . The ordering activity

contracting officer -

(A) Shall  post the RFQ on eBuy to afford all schedule contractors offering the required supplies  or

services under the appropriate multiple-award schedule an opportunity to submit a quote; or

(B) Shall  provide the RFQ, which includes the statement of work and evaluation criteria, to as many

schedule contractors as practicable, consistent with market research  appropriate to the

circumstances, to reasonably ensure that quotes will be received from at least three contractors that

can fulfill the requirements. When fewer than three quotes are received from schedule contractors

that can fulfill the requirements, the contracting officer  shall  document the file. The contracting

officer  shall  prepare a written determination explaining that no additional contractors capable of

fulfilling the requirements could be identified despite reasonable efforts to do so. The determination

must  clearly explain efforts made to obtain quotes from at least three schedule contractors.

(vi) The ordering activity  contracting officer  shall  ensure all quotes received are fairly considered

and award is made in accordance with the basis for selection in the RFQ. The ordering activity  is

responsible for considering the level of effort and the mix of labor proposed to perform, and for

determining that the proposed price is reasonable.

(vii) The BPA must  be established in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iv) or (v), and with paragraph

(b)(2)(vi) of this section, unless the requirement is waived on the basis of a justification that is

prepared and approved in accordance with [8.405-6](/part-8/8.405-6) .

(viii) The ordering activity  contracting officer  shall  establish the BPA with the schedule contractor(s)

that represents the best value  (see [8.404](/part-8/8.404) (d) and [8.405-4](/part-8/8.405-4) ).

(3) After award, ordering activities  should  provide timely notification to unsuccessful offerors . If an

unsuccessful offeror  requests information on an award that was based on factors other than price

alone, a brief explanation of the basis for the award decision shall  be provided.

(c) Ordering from BPAs . The procedures in this paragraph (c) are not required for BPAs established

on or before May 16, 2011. However, ordering activities  are encouraged to use the procedures for

such BPAs.

(1) Single-award BPA . If the ordering activity  establishes a single-award BPA, authorized users may

place the order directly under the established BPA when the need for the supply or service arises.

(2) Multiple-award BPAs .

(i) Orders at or below the micro-purchase threshold . The ordering activity  may place orders at or

below the micro-purchase threshold  with any BPA holder that can meet the agency needs. The

ordering activity  should  attempt to distribute any such orders among the BPA holders.

(ii) Orders exceeding the micro-purchase threshold  but not exceeding the simplified acquisition

threshold .

(A) The ordering activity  must  provide each multiple-award BPA holder a fair opportunity to be

considered for each order exceeding the micro-purchase threshold , but not exceeding the simplified

acquisition threshold  unless one of the exceptions at [8.405-6](/part-8/8.405-6) (a)(1)(i) applies.

(B) The ordering activity  need not contact each of the multiple-award BPA holders before placing an

order if information is available to ensure that each BPA holder is provided a fair opportunity to be

considered for each order.

(C) The ordering activity  contracting officer  shall  document the circumstances when restricting

consideration to less than all multiple-award BPA holders offering the required supplies  and

services.

(iii) Orders exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold .

(A) The ordering activity  shall  place an order in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(A)( 1), (2) and

(3) of this paragraph, unless the requirement is waived on the basis of a justification that is prepared

and approved in accordance with [8.405-6](/part-8/8.405-6) . The ordering activity  shall -

(1) Provide an RFQ to all BPA holders offering the required supplies  or services under the multiple-

award BPAs, to include a description of the supplies  to be delivered or the services to be performed

and the basis upon which the selection will be made;

(2) Afford all BPA holders responding to the RFQ an opportunity to submit a quote; and

(3) Fairly consider all responses received and make award in accordance with the selection

procedures.

(B) The ordering activity  shall  document evidence of compliance with these procedures and the basis

for the award decision.

(3) BPAs for hourly-rate services . If the BPA is for hourly-rate services, the ordering activity  shall

develop a statement of work for each order covered by the BPA. Ordering activities  should  place

these orders on a firm-fixed price basis to the maximum extent practicable. For time-and-materials

and labor-hour orders, the contracting officer  shall  follow the procedures at [8.404](/part-8/8.404) (h). All orders

under the BPA shall  specify a price for the performance of the tasks identified in the statement of

work. The ordering activity  is responsible for considering the level of effort and the mix of labor

proposed to perform a specific task being ordered, and for determining that the total price is

reasonable through appropriate analysis techniques, and documenting the file accordingly.

(d) Duration of BPAs .

(1) Multiple-award BPAs generally should  not exceed five years in length, but may do so to meet

program requirements.

(2) A single-award BPA shall  not exceed one year. It may have up to four one-year options . See

paragraph (e) of this section for requirements associated with option  exercise.

(3) Contractors may be awarded BPAs that extend beyond the current term of their GSA Schedule

contract, so long as there are option  periods in their GSA Schedule contract that, if exercised, will

cover the BPA’s period of performance.

(e) Review of BPAs .

(1) The ordering activity  contracting officer  shall  review the BPA and determine in writing , at least

once a year ( e.g., at option  exercise), whether-

(i) The schedule contract, upon which the BPA was established, is still in effect;

(ii) The BPA still represents the best value  (see [8.404](/part-8/8.404) (d)); and

(iii) Estimated quantities/amounts have been exceeded and additional price reductions can be

obtained.

(2) The determination shall  be included in the BPA file documentation.
