---
id: 8.405-3
title: "8.405-3 Blanket purchase agreements (BPAs)"
sidebar_label: "8.405-3"
---

# 8.405-3 Blanket purchase agreements (BPAs)

(a) Establishment .

(1) Ordering activities  may establish BPAs under any schedule contract to fill repetitive needs for

supplies  or services. Ordering activities  shall  establish the BPA with the schedule contractor(s) that

can provide the supply or service that represents the best value .

(2) In addition to price (see 8.404 (d) and 8.405-4 ), when determining best value , the ordering

activity  may consider, among other factors, the following:

(i) Past performance .

(ii) Special features of the supply or service required for effective program performance.

(iii) Trade-in considerations.

(iv) Probable life of the item selected as compared with that of a comparable item.

(v) Warranty  considerations.

(vi) Maintenance availability.

(vii) Environmental and energy efficiency considerations.

(viii) Delivery terms.

(3)

(i) The ordering activity  contracting officer  shall , to the maximum extent practicable, give

preference to establishing multiple-award BPAs, rather than establishing a single-award BPA.

(ii) No single-award BPA with an estimated value exceeding $150 million  (including any options ),

may be awarded unless the head of the agency  determines in writing  that-

(A) The orders expected under the BPA are so integrally related that only a single source can

reasonably perform the work;

(B) The BPA provides only for firm-fixed priced orders for-

(1) Products  with unit prices established in the BPA; or

(2) Services with prices established in the BPA for specific tasks to be performed;

(C) Only one source is qualified and capable of performing the work at a reasonable price to the

Government; or

(D) It is necessary in the public interest to award the BPA to a single source for exceptional

circumstances.

(iii) The requirement for a determination for a single-award BPA greater than $150 million  is in

addition to any applicable requirement for a limited-source justification at 8.405-6 . However, the two

documents may be combined into one document.

(iv) In determining how many multiple-award BPAs to establish or that a single-award BPA is

appropriate, the contracting officer  should  consider the following factors and document the decision

in the acquisition  plan or BPA file:

(A) The scope and complexity of the requirement(s);

(B) The benefits of on-going competition and the need to periodically compare multiple technical

approaches or prices;

(C) The administrative costs of BPAs; and

(D) The technical qualifications of the schedule contractor(s).

(4) BPAs shall  address the frequency of ordering, invoicing, discounts, requirements ( e.g., estimated

quantities, work to be performed), delivery locations, and time.

(5) When establishing multiple-award BPAs, the ordering activity  shall  specify the procedures for

placing orders under the BPAs in accordance with 8.405-3 (c)(2).

(6) Establishment of a multi-agency BPA against a Federal Supply Schedule contract is permitted if

the multi-agency BPA identifies the participating agencies and their estimated requirements at the

time the BPA is established.

(7) Minimum documentation . The ordering activity  contracting officer  shall  include in the BPA file

documentation the-

(i) Schedule contracts considered, noting the contractor to which the BPA was awarded;

(ii) Description of the supply or service purchased;

(iii) Price;

(iv) Required justification for a limited-source BPA (see 8.405-6 ), if applicable;

(v) Determination for a single-award BPA exceeding $150 million , if applicable (see (a)(3)(ii)) of this

section);

(vi) Documentation supporting the decision to establish multiple-award BPAs or a single-award BPA

(see (a)(3)(iv));

(vii) Evidence of compliance with paragraph (b) of this section, for competitively awarded BPAs, if

applicable; and

(viii) Basis for the award decision . This should  include the evaluation methodology used in selecting

the contractor, the rationale for any tradeoffs in making the selection, and a price reasonableness

determination for services requiring a statement of work.

(b) Competitive procedures for establishing a BPA . This paragraph applies to the establishment of a

BPA, in addition to applicable instructions in paragraph (a).

(1) For supplies , and for services not requiring a statement of work . The procedures of this

paragraph apply when establishing a BPA for supplies  and services that are listed in the schedule

contract at a fixed price for the performance of a specific task, where a statement of work is not

required ( e.g., installation, maintenance, and repair).

(i) If the estimated value of the BPA does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold .

(A) The ordering activity  shall :

(1) Consider reasonably available information about the supply or service offered under MAS

contracts by surveying at least three schedule contractors through the GSA Advantage! on-line

shopping service, by reviewing the catalogs or pricelists of at least three schedule contractors, or by

requesting quotations from at least three schedule contractors (see 8.405-5 ); or

(2) Document the circumstances for restricting consideration to fewer than three schedule

contractors based on one of the reasons at 8.405-6 (a).

(B) The ordering activity  shall  establish the BPA with the schedule contractor(s) that can provide the

best value .

(ii) If the estimated value of the BPA exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold . The ordering

activity  contracting officer :

(A) Shall  provide an RFQ that includes a description of the supplies  to be delivered or the services to

be performed and the basis upon which the selection will be made.

(B) (1) Shall  post the RFQ on eBuy to afford all schedule contractors offering the required supplies

or services under the appropriate multiple award schedule (s) an opportunity to submit a quote; or

(2) Shall  provide the RFQ to as many schedule contractors as practicable, consistent with market

research  appropriate to the circumstances, to reasonably ensure that quotes will be received from at

least three contractors that can fulfill the requirements. When fewer than three quotes are received

from schedule contractors that can fulfill the requirements, the contracting officer  shall  prepare a

written determination explaining that no additional contractors capable of fulfilling the requirements

could be identified despite reasonable efforts to do so. The determination must  clearly explain

efforts made to obtain quotes from at least three schedule contractors.

(C) Shall  ensure all quotes received are fairly considered and award is made in accordance with the

basis for selection in the RFQ. After seeking price reductions (see 8.405-4 ), establish the BPA with

the schedule contractor(s) that provides the best value .

(D) The BPA must  be established in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section,

unless the requirement is waived on the basis of a justification that is prepared and approved in

accordance with 8.405-6 .

(2) For services requiring a statement of work . This applies when establishing a BPA that requires

services priced at hourly rates, as provided by the schedule contract. The applicable services will be

identified in the Federal Supply Schedule publications and the contractor’s pricelists.

(i) Statements of Work (SOWs) . The ordering activity  shall  develop a statement of work. All

Statements of Work shall  include a description of work to be performed; location of work; period of

performance; deliverable schedule; applicable performance standards; and any special requirements

(e.g., security clearances, travel, and special knowledge). To the maximum extent practicable,

agency requirements shall  be performance-based statements (see subpart 37.6).

(ii) Type-of-order preference . The ordering activity  shall  specify the order type ( i.e., firm-fixed price,

time-and-materials, or labor-hour) for the services identified in the statement of work. The

contracting officer  should  establish firm-fixed priced orders to the maximum extent practicable. For

time-and-materials and labor-hour orders, the contracting officer  shall  follow the procedures at
