---
id: 8.802
title: "8.802 Policy"
sidebar_label: "8.802"
---

# 8.802 Policy

(a) Government printing  must  be done by or through the Government Publishing Office (GPO) ( 44

U.S.C. 501 ), unless-

(1) The GPO cannot provide the printing service ( 44 U.S.C. 504 );

(2) The printing is done in field printing plants operated by an executive agency  (44 U.S.C. 501(2) );

(3) The printing is acquired by an executive agency  from allotments for contract field printing ( 44

U.S.C. 501(2) ); or

(4) The printing is specifically authorized by statute to be done other than by the GPO.

(b) The head of each agency shall  designate a central printing authority; that central printing

authority may serve as the liaison with the Congressional Joint Committee on Printing (JCP) and the

Public Printer on matters related to printing. Contracting officers  shall  obtain approval from their

designated central printing authority before contracting  in any manner, whether directly or through

contracts for other supplies  or services, for the items defined in [8.801](/part-8/8.801)  and for composition,

platemaking, presswork, binding, and micrographics (when used as a substitute for printing).

(c)

(1) Further, 44 U.S.C.1121  provides that the Public Printer may acquire and furnish paper and

envelopes (excluding envelopes printed in the course of manufacture) in common use by two or more

Government departments, establishments, or services within the District of Columbia, and provides

for reimbursement of the Public Printer from available appropriations or funds. Paper and envelopes

that are furnished by the Public Printer may not be acquired in any other manner.

(2) Paper and envelopes for use by Executive agencies  outside the District of Columbia and stocked

by GSA shall  be requisitioned from GSA in accordance with the procedures listed in Federal

Property Management Regulations (FPMR) 41 CFR part 101 , subpart 101-[26.3](/part-26/26.3).

Subpart [8.9](/part-8/8.9)  - [Reserved]

Subpart [8.10](/part-8/8.10)  - [Reserved]

Subpart [8.11](/part-8/8.11)  - Leasing of Motor Vehicles

8.1100  Scope of subpart.

This subpart covers the procedures for the leasing , from commercial concerns, of motor vehicles

that comply with Federal Motor Vehicle  Safety Standards and applicable State motor vehicle  safety

regulations. It does not apply to motor vehicles  leased outside the United States  and its outlying

areas .

8.1101  Definitions.

As used in this subpart-

Leasing  means the acquisition  of motor vehicles , other than by purchase from private or commercial

sources, and includes the synonyms "hire" and "rent."

Motor vehicle  means an item of equipment, mounted on wheels and designed for highway and/or

land use, that-

(1) Derives power from a self-contained power unit; or

(2) Is designed to be towed by and used in conjunction with self-propelled equipment.

8.1102  Presolicitation requirements.

(a) Except as specified in 8.1102 (b), before preparing solicitations  for leasing  of motor vehicles ,

contracting officers  shall  obtain from the requiring activity a written certification that-

(1) The vehicles requested are of maximum fuel efficiency and minimum body size, engine size, and

equipment (if any) necessary to fulfill operational needs, and meet prescribed fuel economy

standards;

(2) The head of the requiring agency, or a designee, has certified that the requested passenger

automobiles (sedans and station wagons) larger than Type IA, IB, or II (small, subcompact, or

compact) are essential to the agency’s mission;

(3) Internal approvals have been received; and

(4) The General Services Administration has advised that it cannot furnish the vehicles.

(b) With respect to requirements for leasing  motor vehicles  for a period of less than 60 days, the

contracting officer  need not obtain the certification specified in 8.1102 (a)-

(1) If the requirement is for type 1 A, 1 B, or II vehicles, which are by definition fuel efficient; or

(2) If the requirement is for passenger vehicles larger than 1 A, 1 B, or II, and the agency has

established procedures for advance approval, on a case-by-case basis, of such requirements.

(c) Generally, solicitations  shall  not be limited to current year production models. However, with the

prior approval of the head of the contracting office , solicitations  may be limited to current models on

the basis of overall economy.

8.1103  Contract requirements.

Contracting officers  shall  include the following items in each contract for leasing  motor vehicles :

(a) Scope of contract.

(b) Method of computing payments.

(c) A listing of the number and type of vehicles required, and the equipment and accessories to be

provided with each vehicle.

(d) Responsibilities of the contractor or the Government for furnishing gasoline, motor oil,

antifreeze, and similar items.

(e) Unless it is determined that it will be more economical for the Government to perform the work,

a statement that the contractor shall  perform all maintenance on the vehicles.

(f) A statement as to the applicability of pertinent State and local laws and regulations, and the

responsibility of each party for compliance with them.

(g) Responsibilities of the contractor or the Government for emergency  repairs and services.

8.1104  Contract clauses.

Insert the following clauses in solicitations  and contracts for leasing  of motor vehicles , unless the

motor vehicles  are leased in foreign countries:

(a) The clause at [52.208-4](/part-52/52.208-4) , Vehicle Lease Payments.

(b) The clause at [52.208-5](/part-52/52.208-5) , Condition of Leased Vehicles.

(c) The clause at [52.208-6](/part-52/52.208-6) , Marking of Leased Vehicles.

(d) A clause substantially the same as the clause at [52.208-7](/part-52/52.208-7) , Tagging of Leased Vehicles, for

vehicles leased over 60 days (see subpart B of 41 CFR part 102 -34).

(e) The provisions and clauses prescribed elsewhere in the FAR for solicitations  and contracts for

supplies  when a fixed-price contract is contemplated, but excluding-

(1) The clause at [52.211-16](/part-52/52.211-16) , Variation in Quantity;

(2) The clause at [52.232-1](/part-52/52.232-1) , Payments;

(3) The clause at [52.222-20](/part-52/52.222-20) , Contracts for Materials, Supplies , Articles, and Equipment; and

(4) The clause at [52.246-16](/part-52/52.246-16) , Responsibility for Supplies .
