---
id: 9.202
title: "9.202 (a)"
sidebar_label: "9.202"
---

# 9.202 (a)

(c) If a qualification requirement  applies, the contracting officer  need consider only those offers

identified as meeting the requirement or included on the applicable QPL, QML, or QBL, unless an

offeror  can satisfactorily demonstrate to the contracting officer  that it or its product or its

subcontractor or its product can meet the standards established for qualification before the date

specified for award.

(d) If a product subject to a qualification requirement  is to be acquired as a component  of an end

item, the contracting officer  must  ensure that all such components  and their qualification

requirements  are properly identified in the solicitation  since the product or source must  meet the

standards specified for qualification before award.

(e) In acquisitions  subject to qualification requirements , the contracting officer  shall  take the

following steps:

(1) Use presolicitation notices in appropriate cases to advise potential suppliers before issuing

solicitations  involving qualification requirements . The notices shall  identify the specification

containing the qualification requirement  and establish an allowable time period, consistent with

delivery requirements, for prospective offerors  to demonstrate their abilities to meet the standards

specified for qualification. The notice shall  be publicized in accordance with [5.204](/part-5/5.204) . Whether or not a

presolicitation notice is used, the general synopsizing requirements of subpart  [5.2](/part-5/5.2)  apply.

(2) Distribute solicitations  to prospective contractors whether or not they have been identified as

meeting applicable qualification requirements .

(3) When appropriate, request in accordance with agency procedures that a qualification

requirement  not be enforced in a particular acquisition  and, if granted, so specify in the solicitation

(see [9.206-1](/part-9/9.206-1) (b)).

(4) Forward requests from potential suppliers for information on a qualification requirement  to the

agency activity responsible for establishing the requirement.

(5) Allow the maximum time, consistent with delivery requirements, between issuing the solicitation

and the contract award. As a minimum, contracting officers  shall  comply with the time frames

specified in [5.203](/part-5/5.203)  when applicable.
