---
id: 25.903
title: "25.903 Exempted supplies"
sidebar_label: "25.903"
---

# 25.903 Exempted supplies

(a) Subchapters VIII and X of Chapter 98 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States  (19

U.S.C. 1202) list supplies  for which exemptions from duty may be obtained when imported into the

customs territory of the United States  under a Government contract. For certain of these supplies ,

the contracting  agency must  certify to the Commissioner of Customs that they are for the purpose

stated in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (see 19 CFR [10.102](/part-10/10.102)-104 , [10.114](/part-10/10.114), and [10.121](/part-10/10.121) and 15 CFR

Part 301  for requirements and formats).

(b) Supplies  (excluding equipment) for Government-operated vessels or aircraft may be withdrawn

from any customs-bonded warehouse, from continuous customs custody elsewhere than in a bonded

warehouse, or from a foreign-trade zone, free of duty and internal revenue tax as provided in 19

U.S.C. 1309 and 1317. The contracting activity  must  cite this authority on the appropriate customs

form when making purchases (see 19 CFR [10.59](/part-10/10.59)  - [10.65](/part-10/10.65)).

Subpart [25.10](/part-25/25.10)  - Additional Foreign Acquisition Regulations

25.1001  Waiver of right to examination of records.

(a) Policy . The clause at [52.215-2](/part-52/52.215-2) , Audit and Records-Negotiation, prescribed at [15.209](/part-15/15.209) (b), and

paragraph (d) of the clause at [52.212-5](/part-52/52.212-5) , Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement

Statutes or Executive Orders- Commercial Products  and Commercial Services , prescribed at

[12.301](/part-12/12.301) (b)(4), implement 10 U.S.C. 3841  and 41 U.S.C. 4706. The basic clauses authorize

examination of records by the Comptroller General.

(1) Insert the appropriate basic clause, whenever possible, in negotiated contracts with foreign

contractors .

(2) The contracting officer  may use [52.215-2](/part-52/52.215-2)  with its Alternate  III or [52.212-5](/part-52/52.212-5)  with its Alternate  I

after-

(i) Exhausting all reasonable efforts to include the basic clause;

(ii) Considering factors such as alternate  sources of supply, additional cost, and time of delivery; and

(iii) The head of the agency  has executed a determination and findings in accordance with paragraph

(b) of this section, with the concurrence of the Comptroller General. However, concurrence of the

Comptroller General is not required if the contractor is a foreign government or agency thereof or is

precluded by the laws of the country involved from making its records available for examination.

(b) Determination and findings . The determination and findings must -

(1) Identify the contract and its purpose, and identify if the contract is with a foreign contractor  or

with a foreign government or an agency of a foreign government;

(2) Describe the efforts to include the basic clause;

(3) State the reasons for the contractor’s refusal to include the basic clause;

(4) Describe the price and availability of the supplies  or services from the United States  and other

sources; and

(5) Determine that it will best serve the interest of the United States  to use the appropriate alternate

clause in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

25.1002  Use of foreign currency.

(a) Unless an international agreement or the WTO GPA  (see [25.408](/part-25/25.408) (a)(4)) requires a specific

currency, contracting officers  must  determine whether solicitations  for contracts to be entered into

and performed outside the United States  will require submission of offers  in U.S. currency or a

specified foreign currency. In unusual circumstances, the contracting officer  may permit submission

of offers  in other than a specified currency.

(b) To ensure a fair evaluation of offers , solicitations  generally should  require all offers  to be priced

in the same currency. However, if the solicitation  permits submission of offers  in other than a

specified currency, the contracting officer  must  convert the offered prices to U.S. currency for

evaluation purposes. The contracting officer  must  use the current market exchange rate from a

commonly used source in effect as follows:

(1) For acquisitions  conducted using sealed bidding procedures, on the date of bid opening.

(2) For acquisitions  conducted using negotiation procedures-

(i) On the date specified for receipt of offers , if award is based on initial offers ; otherwise

(ii) On the date specified for receipt of final proposal revisions.

(c) If a contract is priced in foreign currency, the agency must  ensure that adequate funds are

available to cover currency fluctuations to avoid a violation of the Anti-Deficiency Act (31

U.S.C. 1341, 1342, 1511-1519).

25.1003  Tax on certain foreign procurements.

See [29.204](/part-29/29.204)  for the imposition of the tax on certain foreign procurements  pursuant to the James

Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010 ( Pub. L. 111-347 ), 26 U.S.C. 5000  C, and its

implementing regulations at 26 CFR 1.5000C-1 through 1.5000C-7.

Subpart [25.11](/part-25/25.11)  - Solicitation Provisions and Contract Clauses

25.1101  Acquisition of supplies.

The following provisions and clauses apply to the acquisition  of supplies  and the acquisition  of

services involving the furnishing of supplies .

(a)

(1)

(i) Insert the clause at [52.225-1](/part-52/52.225-1) , Buy American- Supplies , in solicitations  and contracts with a value

exceeding the micro-purchase threshold  but not exceeding $50,000; and in solicitations  and

contracts with a value exceeding $50,000, if none of the clauses prescribed in paragraphs (b) and (c)

of this section apply, except if-

(A) The solicitation  is restricted to domestic end products  in accordance with subpart  [6.3](/part-6/6.3) ;

(B) The acquisition  is for supplies  for use within the United States  and an exception to the Buy

American statute applies (e.g., nonavailability, public interest, or information technology  that is a

commercial product ); or

(C) The acquisition  is for supplies  for use outside the United States .

(ii) The contracting officer  shall  use the clause with its Alternate  I to reflect the domestic content

threshold that will apply to the entire period of performance, when the senior procurement

executive  allows for application of an alternate  domestic content test for the contract in accordance

with [25.101](/part-25/25.101) (d). For contracts that the contracting officer  estimates will be awarded in calendar year

2022 or 2023, the contracting officer  shall  insert “60” in paragraph (1)(ii)(A) of the definition of

“domestic end product .” For contracts that the contracting officer  estimates will be awarded in

calendar year 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, or 2028, the contracting officer  shall  insert “65”. For

contracts that the contracting officer  estimates will be awarded after calendar year 2028 the

contracting officer  shall  insert “75”.

(2) Insert the provision at [52.225-2](/part-52/52.225-2) , Buy American Certificate, in solicitations  containing the clause

at [52.225-1](/part-52/52.225-1) .

(b)

(1)

(i) Insert the clause at [52.225-3](/part-52/52.225-3) , Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act, in

solicitations  and contracts if-

(A) The acquisition  is for supplies , or for services involving the furnishing of supplies , for use within

the United States , and the acquisition  value is $50,000; or more, but is less than $174,000;

(B) The acquisition  is not for information technology  that is a commercial product , using fiscal year

2004 or subsequent fiscal year funds; and

(C) No exception in [25.401](/part-25/25.401)  applies. For acquisitions  of agencies not subject to the Israeli Trade Act

(see [25.406](/part-25/25.406) ), see agency regulations.

(ii) If the acquisition  value is $50,000 or more but is less than $100,000, use the clause with its

Alternate  II.

(iii) If the acquisition  value is $100,000 or more but is less than $102,280, use the clause with its

Alternate  III.

(iv) The contracting officer  shall  use the clause with its Alternate  IV to reflect the domestic content

threshold that will apply to the entire period of performance, when the senior procurement

executive  allows for application of an alternate  domestic content test for the contract in accordance

with [25.102](/part-25/25.102) (d). For contracts that the contracting officer  estimates will be awarded in calendar year

2022 or 2023, the contracting officer  shall  insert “60” in paragraph (1)(ii)(A) of the definition of

“domestic end product .” For contracts that the contracting officer  estimates will be awarded in

calendar year 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, or 2028, the contracting officer  shall  insert “65”. For

contracts that the contracting officer  estimates will be awarded after calendar year 2028 the

contracting officer  shall  insert “75”.

(2)

(i) Insert the provision at [52.225-4](/part-52/52.225-4) , Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act

Certificate, in solicitations  containing the clause at [52.225-3](/part-52/52.225-3) .

(ii) If the acquisition  value is $50,000 or more but is less than $100,000, use the provision with its

Alternate  II.

(iii) If the acquisition  value is $100,000 or more, but is less than $102,280, use the provision with its

Alternate  III.

(c)

(1) Insert the clause at [52.225-5](/part-52/52.225-5) , Trade Agreements, in solicitations  and contracts valued at

$174,000 or more, if the acquisition  is covered by the WTO GPA  (see subpart  [25.4](/part-25/25.4) ) and the agency

has determined that the restrictions of the Buy American statute are not applicable to U.S.-made end

products . If the agency has not made such a determination, the contracting officer  must  follow

agency procedures.

(2) Insert the provision at [52.225-6](/part-52/52.225-6) , Trade Agreements Certificate, in solicitations  containing the

clause at [52.225-5](/part-52/52.225-5) .

(d) Insert the provision at [52.225-7](/part-52/52.225-7) , Waiver of Buy American Statute for Civil Aircraft and Related

Articles , in solicitations  for civil aircraft and related articles  (see [25.407](/part-25/25.407) ), if the acquisition  value is

less than $174,000.

(e) Insert the clause at [52.225-8](/part-52/52.225-8) , Duty-Free Entry, in solicitations  and contracts for supplies  that may

be imported into the United States  and for which duty-free entry may be obtained in accordance

with [25.903](/part-25/25.903) (a), if the value of the acquisition -

(1) Exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold ; or

(2) Does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold , but the savings from waiving the duty is

anticipated to be more than the administrative cost of waiving the duty. When used for acquisitions

that do not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold , the contracting officer  may modify

paragraphs (c)(1) and (j)(2) of the clause to reduce the dollar figure.

(f) Insert the provision at [52.225-18](/part-52/52.225-18) , Place of Manufacture, in solicitations  that are predominantly

for the acquisition  of manufactured end products  (i.e., the estimated value of the manufactured end

products  exceeds the estimated value of other items to be acquired as a result of the solicitation ).

25.1102  Acquisition of construction.

When using funds other than those appropriated under the American Recovery and Reinvestment

Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5) (Recovery Act), follow the prescriptions in paragraphs (a) through (d) of

this section. Otherwise, follow the prescription in paragraph (e).

(a) Insert the clause at [52.225-9](/part-52/52.225-9) , Buy American- Construction Materials , in solicitations  and contracts

for construction  that is performed in the United States valued at less than $6,708,000.

(1) List in paragraph (b)(2) of the clause all foreign construction material  excepted from the

requirements of the Buy American statute.

(2) If the head of the agency  determines that a higher percentage is appropriate, substitute the

higher evaluation percentage in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of the clause.

(3) The contracting officer  shall  use the clause with its Alternate  I to reflect the domestic content

threshold that will apply to the entire period of performance, when the senior procurement

executive  allows for application of an alternate  domestic content test for the contract in accordance

with [25.201](/part-25/25.201) (c). For contracts that the contracting officer  estimates will be awarded in calendar year

2022 or 2023, the contracting  officer shall  insert “60” in paragraph (1)(ii)(A) of the definition of

“domestic construction material .” For contracts that the contracting  officer estimates will be

awarded in calendar year 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, or 2028, the contracting officer  shall  insert “65”.

For contracts that the contracting officer  estimates will be awarded after calendar year 2028 the

contracting officer  shall  insert “75”.

(b)

(1) Insert the provision at [52.225-10](/part-52/52.225-10) , Notice of Buy American Requirement- Construction Materials ,

in solicitations  containing the clause at [52.225-9](/part-52/52.225-9) .

(2) If insufficient time is available to process a determination regarding the inapplicability of the Buy

American statute before receipt of offers , use the provision with its Alternate  I.

(c) Insert the clause at [52.225-11](/part-52/52.225-11) , Buy American- Construction Materials  under Trade Agreements, in

solicitations  and contracts for construction  that is performed in the United States  valued at

$6,708,000 or more.

(1) List in paragraph (b)(3) of the clause all foreign construction material  excepted from the

requirements of the Buy American statute, other than designated country  construction material .

(2) If the head of the agency  determines that a higher percentage is appropriate, substitute the

higher evaluation percentage in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of the clause.

(3) For acquisitions  valued at $6,708,000 or more, but less than $13,296,489, use the clause with its

Alternate  I. List in paragraph (b)(3) of the clause all foreign construction material  excepted from the

requirements of the Buy American statute, unless the excepted foreign construction  material is from

a designated country  other than Bahrain, Mexico, and Oman.

(4) The contracting officer  shall  use the clause with its Alternate  II to reflect the domestic content

threshold that will apply to the entire period of performance, when the senior procurement

executive  allows for application of an alternate  domestic content test for the contract in accordance

with [25.201](/part-25/25.201) (c). For contracts that the contracting officer  estimates will be awarded in calendar year

2022 or 2023, the contracting  officer shall  insert “60” in paragraph (1)(ii)(A) of the definition of

“domestic construction material .” For contracts that the contracting  officer estimates will be

awarded in calendar year 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, or 2028, the contracting officer  shall  insert “65”.

For contracts that the contracting officer  estimates will be awarded after calendar year 2028 the

contracting officer  shall  insert “75”.

(d)

(1) Insert the provision at [52.225-12](/part-52/52.225-12) , Notice of Buy American Requirement- Construction Materials

under Trade Agreements, in solicitations  containing the clause at [52.225-11](/part-52/52.225-11) .

(2) If insufficient time is available to process a determination regarding the inapplicability of the Buy

American statute before receipt of offers , use the provision with its Alternate  I.

(3) For acquisitions  valued at $6,708,000 or more, but less than $13,296,489, use the provision with

its Alternate  II.

(e)

(1) When using funds appropriated under the Recovery Act for construction , use provisions and

clauses [52.225-21](/part-52/52.225-21) , [52.225-22](/part-52/52.225-22) , [52.225-23](/part-52/52.225-23) , or [52.225-24](/part-52/52.225-24)  (with appropriate Alternates ) in lieu of the

provisions and clauses [52.225-9](/part-52/52.225-9) , [52.225-10](/part-52/52.225-10) , [52.225-11](/part-52/52.225-11) , or [52.225-12](/part-52/52.225-12)  (with appropriate Alternates ),

respectively, that would be applicable as prescribed in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section if

Recovery Act funds were not used.

(2) If these Recovery Act provisions and clauses are only applicable to a project consisting of certain

line items  in the contract, identify in the schedule the line items  to which the provisions and clauses

apply.

(3) When using clause [52.225-23](/part-52/52.225-23) , list foreign construction material  in paragraph (b)(3) of the clause

as follows:

(i) Basic clause . List all foreign construction materials  excepted from the Buy American statute or

section 1605 of the Recovery Act, other than manufactured construction material  from a Recovery

Act designated country  or unmanufactured construction material  from a designated country .

(ii) Alternate  I. List in paragraph (b)(3) of the clause all foreign construction material  excepted from

the Buy American statute or section 1605 of the Recovery Act, other than-

(A) Manufactured construction material  from a Recovery Act designated country  other than Bahrain,

Mexico, or Oman; or

(B) Unmanufactured construction material  from a designated country  other than Bahrain, Mexico, or

Oman.

25.1103  Other provisions and clauses.

(a) Restrictions on certain foreign purchases . Insert the clause at [52.225-13](/part-52/52.225-13) , Restrictions on Certain

Foreign Purchases, in solicitations  and contracts, unless an exception applies.

(b) Translations . Insert the clause at [52.225-14](/part-52/52.225-14) , Inconsistency Between English Version and

Translation of Contract, in solicitations  and contracts if anticipating translation into another

language.

(c) Foreign currency offers . Insert the provision at [52.225-17](/part-52/52.225-17) , Evaluation of Foreign Currency Offers ,

in solicitations  that permit the use of other than a specified currency. Insert in the provision the

source of the rate to be used in the evaluation of offers .

(d) The contracting officer  shall  include in each solicitation  for the acquisition  of other than

commercial products  or commercial services  the provision at [52.225-20](/part-52/52.225-20) , Prohibition on Conducting

Restricted Business Operations in Sudan—Certification.

(e) The contracting officer  shall  include in all solicitations  the provision at [52.225-25](/part-52/52.225-25) , Prohibition on

Contracting  with Entities Engaging in Certain Activities or Transactions Relating to Iran-

Representation and Certifications.
