---
id: 16.301-3
title: "16.301-3 "
sidebar_label: "16.301-3"
---

# 16.301-3 

(5) Time-and-materials or labor-hour orders.  For additional requirements for time-and-materials or

labor-hour orders, see 16.601 (e).

(6) Postaward notices and debriefing of awardees for orders exceeding $7.5 million. The contracting

officer  shall  notify unsuccessful awardees when the total price of a task or delivery order  exceeds

$7.5 million.

(i) The procedures at 15.503 (b)(1) shall  be followed when providing postaward notification to

unsuccessful awardees.

(ii) The procedures at 15.506  shall  be followed when providing postaward debriefing to unsuccessful

awardees.

(iii) A summary of the debriefing shall  be included in the task or delivery order  file.

(7) Decision documentation for orders .

(i) The contracting officer  shall  document in the contract file the rationale for placement and price of

each order, including the basis for award and the rationale for any tradeoffs among cost or price and

non-cost considerations in making the award decision. This documentation need not quantify the

tradeoffs that led to the decision.

(ii) The contract file shall  also identify the basis for using an exception to the fair opportunity

process (see paragraph (b)(2) of this section).

(iii)Except for DoD, the contracting officer  shall  document in the contract file a justification for use

of the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process, when applicable.

(8) Task-order and delivery-order ombudsman . The head of the agency  shall  designate a task-order

and delivery-order ombudsman. The ombudsman must  review complaints from contractors and

ensure they are afforded a fair opportunity to be considered, consistent with the procedures in the

contract. The ombudsman must  be a senior agency official who is independent of the contracting

officer  and may be the agency’s advocate for competition.

(9) Small business. The contracting officer  should  rely on the small business representations at the

contract level (but see 19.301-2 (b)(3) for order rerepresentations).

(c) Limitation on ordering period for task-order contracts for advisory and assistance services .

(1) Except as provided for in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section, the ordering period of a task-

order contract for advisory and assistance services , including all options  or modifications, normally

may not exceed 5 years.

(2) The 5-year limitation does not apply when—

(i) A longer ordering period is specifically authorized by a statute; or

(ii) The contract is for an acquisition  of supplies  or services that includes the acquisition  of advisory

and assistance services  and the contracting officer , or other official designated by the head of the

agency , determines that the advisory and assistance services  are incidental and not a significant

component  of the contract.

(3) The contracting officer  may extend the contract on a sole-source basis only once for a period not

to exceed 6 months if the contracting officer , or other official designated by the head of the agency ,

determines that—

(i) The award of a follow-on contract is delayed by circumstances that were not reasonably

foreseeable at the time the initial contract was entered into; and

(ii) The extension is necessary to ensure continuity of services, pending the award of the follow-on

contract.
