---
id: 16.505
title: "16.505 (b)(2)(ii)(B);"
sidebar_label: "16.505"
---

# 16.505 (b)(2)(ii)(B);

(B) The contracting officer  shall —

(1) Provide a fair notice of the intent to make a purchase, including a clear description of the

supplies  to be delivered or the services to be performed and the basis upon which the selection will

be made to all contractors offering the required supplies  or services under the multiple-award

contract ; and

(2) Afford all contractors responding to the notice a fair opportunity to submit an offer  and have that

offer  fairly considered.

(iv) Orders exceeding $7.5 million . For task or delivery orders  in excess of $7.5 million, the

requirement to provide all awardees a fair opportunity to be considered for each order shall  include,

at a minimum—

(A) A notice of the task or delivery order  that includes a clear statement of the agency’s

requirements;

(B) A reasonable response period;

(C) Disclosure of the significant factors and subfactors, including cost or price, that the agency

expects to consider in evaluating proposals, and their relative importance;

(D) Where award is made on a best value  basis, a written statement documenting the basis for award

and the relative importance of quality and price or cost factors; and

(E) An opportunity for a postaward debriefing in accordance with paragraph (b)(6) of this section.

(v) The contracting officer  should  consider the following when developing the procedures:

(A)

(1) Past performance  on earlier orders under the contract, including quality, timeliness and cost

control.

(2) Potential impact on other orders placed with the contractor.

(3) Minimum order requirements.

(4) The amount of time contractors need to make informed business decisions on whether to respond

to potential orders.

(5) Whether contractors could be encouraged to respond to potential orders by outreach efforts to

promote exchanges of information, such as—

(i) Seeking comments from two or more contractors on draft statements of work;

(ii) Using a multiphased approach when effort required to respond to a potential order may be

resource intensive ( e.g., requirements are complex or need continued development), where all

contractors are initially considered on price considerations ( e.g., rough estimates), and other

considerations as appropriate ( e.g.,proposed conceptual approach, past performance ). The

contractors most likely to submit the highest value solutions are then selected for one-on-one

sessions with the Government to increase their understanding of the requirements, provide

suggestions for refining requirements, and discuss risk reduction measures.

(B) Formal evaluation plans or scoring of quotes or offers  are not required.

(2) Exceptions to the fair opportunity process .

(i) The contracting officer  shall  give every awardee a fair opportunity to be considered for a delivery

order  or task order  exceeding the micro-purchase threshold  unless one of the following statutory

exceptions applies:

(A) The agency need for the supplies  or services is so urgent that providing a fair opportunity would

result in unacceptable delays.

(B) Only one awardee is capable of providing the supplies  or services required at the level of quality

required because the supplies  or services ordered are unique or highly specialized.

(C) The order must  be issued on a sole-source basis in the interest of economy and efficiency

because it is a logical follow-on to an order already issued under the contract, provided that all

awardees were given a fair opportunity to be considered for the original order.

(D) It is necessary to place an order to satisfy a minimum guarantee.

(E) For orders exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold , a statute expressly authorizes or

requires that the purchase be made from a specified source.

(F) In accordance with section 1331 of Public Law 111-240 ( 15 U.S.C. 644(r) ), contracting officers

may, at their discretion, set aside orders for any of the small business concerns identified in

19.000 (a)(3). When setting aside orders for small business concerns, the specific small business

program eligibility requirements identified in part  19  apply.

(G) For DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard, the order satisfies one of the exceptions permitting the

use of other than full and open competition  listed in 6.302  (10 U.S.C. 3406(c)(5) ). The public interest

exception shall  not be used unless Congress is notified in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 3204(a)(7) .

(ii) The justification for an exception to fair opportunity shall  be in writing  as specified in paragraph

(b)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section. No justification is needed for the exception described in paragraph

(b)(2)(i)(F) of this section.

(A) Orders exceeding the micro-purchase threshold , but not exceeding the simplified acquisition

threshold . The contracting officer  shall  document the basis for using an exception to the fair

opportunity process. If the contracting officer  uses the logical follow-on exception, the rationale shall

describe why the relationship between the initial order and the follow-on is logical ( e.g., in terms of

scope, period of performance, or value).

(B) Orders exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold . As a minimum, each justification shall

include the following information and be approved in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C) of this

section:

(1) Identification of the agency and the contracting activity , and specific identification of the

document as a "Justification for an Exception to Fair Opportunity."

(2) Nature and/or description of the action being approved.

(3) A description of the supplies  or services required to meet the agency’s needs (including the

estimated value).

(4) Identification of the exception to fair opportunity (see 16.505 (b)(2)) and the supporting rationale,

including a demonstration that the proposed contractor’s unique qualifications or the nature of the

acquisition  requires use of the exception cited. If the contracting officer  uses the logical follow-on

exception, the rationale shall  describe why the relationship between the initial order and the follow-

on is logical ( e.g., in terms of scope, period of performance, or value).

(5) A determination by the contracting officer  that the anticipated cost to the Government will be

fair and reasonable.

(6) Any other facts supporting the justification.

(7) A statement of the actions, if any, the agency may take to remove or overcome any barriers that

led to the exception to fair opportunity before any subsequent acquisition  for the supplies  or services

is made.

(8) The contracting officer ’s certification that the justification is accurate and complete to the best of

the contracting officer ’s knowledge and belief.

(9) Evidence that any supporting data that is the responsibility of technical or requirements

personnel ( e.g., verifying the Government’s minimum needs or requirements or other rationale for

an exception to fair opportunity) and which form a basis for the justification have been certified as

complete and accurate by the technical or requirements personnel.

(10) A written determination by the approving official that one of the circumstances in paragraphs

(b)(2)(i)(A) through (E) and (G) of this section applies to the order.

(C) Approval .

(1) For proposed orders exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold , but not exceeding $900,000,

the ordering activity contracting officer 's certification that the justification is accurate and complete

to the best of the ordering activity contracting officer 's knowledge and belief will serve as approval,

unless a higher approval level is established in accordance with agency procedures.

(2) For a proposed order exceeding $900,000, but not exceeding $20 million, the justification must

be approved by the advocate for competition of the activity placing the order, or by an official named

in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)( 3) or ( 4) of this section. This authority is not delegable.

(3) For a proposed order exceeding $20 million, but not exceeding $90 million (or, for DoD, NASA,

and the Coast Guard, not exceeding $150 million), the justification must  be approved by—

(i) The head of the procuring activity  placing the order;

(ii) A designee who—

(A) If a member of the armed forces, is a general or flag officer;

(B) If a civilian, is serving in a position in a grade above GS-15 under the General Schedule (or in a

comparable or higher position under another schedule); or

(iii) An official named in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C) (4)of this section.

(4) For a proposed order exceeding $90 million (or, for DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard, over $150

million), the justification must  be approved by the senior procurement executive  of the agency

placing the order. This authority is not delegable, except in the case of the Under Secretary of

Defense for Acquisition  and Sustainment, acting as the senior procurement executive  for the

Department of Defense.

(D) Posting.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D) (5) of this section, within 14 days after placing an

order exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold  that does not provide for fair opportunity in

accordance with 16.505 (b), the contract officer shall —

(i) Publish a notice in accordance with 5.301 ; and

(ii) Make publicly available the justification required at of this section.

(2) The justification shall  be made publicly available—

(i) At the GPE https://www.sam.gov;

(ii) On the Web site of the agency, which may provide access to the justifications by linking to the

GPE; and

(iii) Must  remain posted for a minimum of 30 days.

(3) In the case of an order permitted under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the justification

shall  be posted within 30 days after award of the order.

(4) Contracting officers  shall  carefully screen all justifications for contractor proprietary data and

remove all such data, and such references and citations as are necessary to protect the proprietary

data, before making the justifications available for public inspection . Contracting officers  shall  also

be guided by the exemptions to disclosure of information contained in the Freedom of Information

Act ( 5 U.S.C. 552 ) and the prohibitions against disclosure in 24.202  in determining whether other

data should  be removed. Although the submitter notice process set out in Executive Order 12600

"Predisclosure Notification Procedures for Confidential Commercial Information" does not apply, if

the justification appears to contain proprietary data, the contracting officer  should  provide the

contractor that submitted the information an opportunity to review the justification for proprietary

data before making the justification available for public inspection , redacted as necessary. This

process must  not prevent or delay the posting of the justification in accordance with the timeframes

required in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(D)(1) and (3) of this section.

(5) The posting requirement of this section does not apply—

(i) When disclosure would compromise the national security ( e.g., would result in disclosure of

classified information ) or create other security risks; or

(ii) To a small business set-aside under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(F)

(3) Pricing  orders . If the contract did not establish the price for the supply or service, the

contracting officer  must  establish prices for each order using the policies and methods in subpart

15.4.

(4) Cost reimbursement orders.  For additional requirements for cost-reimbursement orders, see
