---
id: 49.108-4
title: "49.108-4 ;"
sidebar_label: "49.108-4"
---

# 49.108-4 ;

(3) 90 percent of the direct cost  of termination inventory , including costs of raw materials,

purchased parts, supplies , and direct labor;

(4) 90 percent of other allowable costs (including settlement expense and manufacturing and

administrative indirect costs ) allocable to the terminated portion of the contract  and not included in

paragraphs (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section; and

(5) 100 percent of partial payments made to subcontractors under this section.

(c) Recognition of assignments.  When an assignment of claims  has been made under the contract,

the Government shall  not make partial payments to other than the assignee unless the parties to the

assignment consent in writing  (see [32.805](/part-32/32.805) (e)).

(d) Security for partial payments.  If any partial payment is made for completed end items or for costs

of termination inventory , the TCO shall  protect the Government’s interest. This shall  be done by

obtaining title to the completed end items or termination inventory , or by the creation of a lien in

favor of the Government, paramount to all other liens, on the completed end items or termination

inventory , or by other appropriate means.

(e) Deductions in computing amount of partial payments . The TCO shall  deduct from the gross

amount of any partial payment otherwise payable under [49.112-1](/part-49/49.112-1) (b)-

(1) All unliquidated balances of progress and advance payments (including interest) made to the

contractor, which are allocable to the terminated portion of the contract ; and

(2) The amounts of all credits arising from the purchase, retention, or sale of property, the costs of

which are included in the application for payment.

(f) Limitation on total amount.  The total amount of all partial payments shall  not exceed the amount

that will, in the opinion of the TCO, become due to the contractor because of the termination.

(g) Effect of overpayment.  If the total of partial payments exceeds the amount finally determined due

on the settlement proposal , the contractor shall  repay the excess to the Government on demand,

together with interest. The interest shall  be computed at the rate established by the Secretary of the

Treasury under 50 U.S.C. App.1215(b)(2) from the date the excess payment was received by the

contractor to the date of repayment. However, interest will not be charged for any-

(1) Excess payment attributable to a reduction in the settlement proposal  because of retention or

other disposition of termination inventory , until 10 days after the date of the retention or disposition,

or a later date determined by the TCO, or

(2) Overpayment under cost-reimbursement research and development contracts without profit or

fee if the overpayments are repaid to the Government within 30 days after demand.

(h) Certification and approval of partial payments.

(1) The contractor shall  place the following certification on vouchers or invoices  for partial

payments:

The payment covered by this voucher is a partial payment on the Contractor’s settlement proposal

under contract No. _______________ under part  49  of the Federal Acquisition  Regulation.

(2) The TCO shall  approve the invoice  or voucher by noting on it the following:

Payment of $ ____________ is approved.
