---
id: 4.905
title: "4.905 Solicitation provision"
sidebar_label: "4.905"
---

# 4.905 Solicitation provision

The contracting officer  shall  insert the provision at [52.204-3](/part-52/52.204-3) , Taxpayer Identification, in solicitations

that-

(a) Do not include the provision at [52.204-7](/part-52/52.204-7) , System for Award Management ; and

(b) Are not conducted under the procedures of part  12 .

Subpart [4.10](/part-4/4.10)  - Uniform Use of Line Items

4.1000  Scope.

This subpart prescribes policies and procedures for assigning line items  and subline items  and their

identifiers. However, in order to provide agencies with time to transition their information systems,

agencies have until October 1, 2019, to apply the requirements of 4.1002  through 4.1008 .

4.1001  Policy.

In order to improve the accuracy, traceability, and usability of procurement  data, procurement

instruments shall  identify the supplies  or services to be acquired as separately identified line items

and, as needed, subline items .

(a) Line items  are established to define deliverables or organize information about deliverables.

Each line item  describes characteristics for the item purchased, e.g., pricing , delivery, and funding

information.

(b) Each line item  may be subdivided into separate unique subsets (called subline items ) to ease

administration. If a line item  has deliverable subline items , the line item  is informational. Subline

items  differentiate between or among certain characteristics of the line item , such as colors or sizes,

dates of delivery, destinations, or places of performance. Subline items  are established to define

deliverables or organize information about deliverables.

4.1002  Applicability.

The policies of this subpart shall  apply to the following procurement  instruments, to include

amendments, modifications, and change orders  thereto:

(a) Solicitations .

(b) Contracts, including, but not limited to, Governmentwide acquisition  contracts (GWACs), multi-

agency contracts (MACs), Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) contracts, indefinite-delivery contracts,

and purchase orders .

(c) Agreements that include pre-priced supplies  or services.

(d) Task and delivery orders .

4.1003  Establishing line items.

Establish separate line items  for deliverables that have the following characteristics except as

provided at 4.1005-2 :

(a) Separately identifiable.

(1) A supply is separately identifiable if it has its own identification ( e.g., national stock number

(NSN), item description, manufacturer's part number).

(2) Services are separately identifiable if they have no more than one statement of work or

performance work statement .

(3) If the procurement  instrument involves a first article  (see subpart  [9.3](/part-9/9.3) ), establish a separate line

item for each item requiring a separate approval. If the first article  consists of a lot composed of a

mixture of items that will be approved as a single lot, a single line item  may be used.

(b) Single unit price or total price.

(c) Single accounting classification citation. A single deliverable may be funded by multiple

accounting classifications when the deliverable effort cannot be otherwise subdivided.

(d) Separate delivery schedule, destination, period of performance, or place of performance.

(e) Single contract pricing  type (e.g., fixed-price or cost-reimbursement).

4.1004  Establishing subline items.

Subline items  may be used to facilitate tracking of performance, deliverables, payment, and contract

funds accounting or for other management purposes. Subline items  may be either deliverable or

informational. The list of characteristics at 4.1003  applies to deliverable subline items , but it is not

applicable to informational subline items . A line item  with subline items  shall  contain only that

information that is common to all subline items  thereunder. All subline items  under one line item

shall  be the same contract type as the line item .

(a) Deliverable subline items . Deliverable subline items  may be used for several related items that

require separate identification. For example, instead of establishing multiple separate line items ,

subline items  may be established for-

(1) Items that are basically the same, except for minor variations such as–

(i) Size or color;

(ii) Accounting classification, but see also 4.1005-1 (a)(4); or

(iii) Date of delivery, destination, or period or place of performance;

(2) Separately priced collateral functions that relate to the primary product, such as packaging and

handling, or transportation; or

(3) Items to be separately identified at the time of shipment  or performance.

(b) Informational subline items .

(1) Informational subline items  may be used by agencies for administrative purposes. This type of

subline item  identifies information that relates directly to the line item  and is an integral part of it

(e.g., parts of an assembly or parts of a kit).

(2) Position informational subline items  within the line item  description, not in the quantity or price

fields.

4.1005  Data elements for line items and subline items.

4.1005-1  Required data elements.

(a) Except as provided in 4.1005-2 , each line item  or subline item  shall  include in the schedule

(described at [12.303](/part-12/12.303) (b)(4), [14.201-2](/part-14/14.201-2) , or [15.204-2](/part-15/15.204-2) , or in a comparable section of the procurement

instrument), at a minimum, the following information as separate, distinct data elements:

(1) Line item  or subline item  number established in accordance with agency procedures.

(2) Description of what is being purchased.

(3) Product or Service Code (PSC).

(4) Accounting classification citation.

(i) Line items  or deliverable subline items . If multiple accounting classifications for a single

deliverable apply, include the dollar amount for each accounting classification in the schedule (or a

comparable section of the procurement  instrument).

(ii) Informational subline items . An accounting classification citation is not required. (See 4.1004 ).

(5)

(i) For fixed-price line items :

(A) Unit of measure.

(B) Quantity.

(C) Unit price.

(D) Total price.

(ii) For cost-reimbursement line items :

(A) Unit of measure.

(B) Quantity.

(C) Estimated cost.

(D) Fee (if any).

(E) Total estimated cost plus any fee.

(b) If a contract contains a combination of fixed-price, time-and-materials, labor-hour, or cost-

reimbursable line items , identify the contract type for each line item  in the schedule (or a

comparable section of the procurement  instrument) to facilitate payment.

(c) Each deliverable line item  or deliverable subline item  shall  have its own delivery schedule,

destination, period of performance, or place of performance expressly stated in the appropriate

section of the procurement  instrument ("as required" constitutes an expressly stated delivery term).

When a line item  has deliverable subline items , the delivery schedule, destination, period of

performance, or place of performance shall  be identified at the subline item  level, rather than the

line item  level.

(d) Terms and conditions in other sections of the contract (such as contract clauses  or payment

instructions) shall  also specify applicability to individual line items  if not applicable to the contract

as a whole.

4.1005-2  Exceptions.

(a) Indefinite-delivery contracts -

(1) General . The following required data elements are not known at time of issuance of an indefinite-

delivery contract, but shall  be provided in each order at the time of issuance: accounting

classification, delivery date and destination, or period and place of performance.

(2) Indefinite-delivery indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) and requirements contracts .

(i) IDIQ and requirements contracts may omit the quantity at the line item  level for the base award

provided that the total contract minimum and maximum, or the estimate, respectively, is stated.

(ii) Multiple-award IDIQ contracts awarded using the procedures at [13.106-1](/part-13/13.106-1) (a)(2)(iv)(A) or

[15.304](/part-15/15.304) (c)(1)(ii)(A) may omit price or cost at the line item  or subline item  level for the contract

award, provided that the total contract minimum and maximum is stated (see [16.504](/part-16/16.504) (a)(1)).

(b) Item description and PSC . These data elements are not required in the line item  if there are

associated deliverable subline items  that include the actual detailed identification. When this

exception applies, use a general narrative description for the line item .

(c) Single unit price or single total price . The requirement for a single unit price or single total price

at the line item  level does not apply if any of the following conditions are present:

(1) There are associated deliverable subline items  that are priced.

(2) The line item  or subline item  is not separately priced.

(3) The supplies  or services are being acquired on a cost-reimbursement, time-and-materials, or

labor-hour basis.

(4) The procurement  instrument is for services and firm prices have been established for elements of

the total price, but the actual number of the elements is not known until performance ( e.g., a labor-

hour contract for maintenance/repair). The contracting officer  may structure these procurement

instruments to reflect a firm or estimated total amount for each line item .

4.1006  Modifications.

(a) When a new item (such as an increased quantity) is added to the procurement  instrument, assign

a new line item number .

(b) If the modification relates to existing line items , the modification shall  refer to those items.

4.1007  Solicitation alternative line item proposal.

Solicitations  should  be structured to allow offerors  to propose alternative line items  (see 4.1008  and

[52.212-1](/part-52/52.212-1) (e)). For example, when soliciting certain items using units of measure such as kit, set, or

lot, the offeror  may not be able to group and deliver all items in a single shipment .

4.1008  Solicitation provision.

Insert the provision at [52.204-22](/part-52/52.204-22) , Alternative Line Item  Proposal, in all solicitations .

Subpart [4.11](/part-4/4.11)  - System for Award Management

4.1100  Scope.

This subpart prescribes policies and procedures for requiring contractor registration in the System

for Award Management (SAM ) to—

(a) Increase visibility of vendor sources (including their geographical locations) for specific supplies

and services; and

(b) Establish a common source of vendor data for the Government.

4.1101  Definition.

As used in this subpart-

Agreement  means basic agreement , basic ordering agreement , or blanket purchase agreement .

4.1102  Policy.

(a) Offerors  and quoters are required to be registered in SAM at the time an offer  or quotation is

submitted in order to comply with the annual representations and certifications requirements except

for—

(1) Purchases under the micro-purchase  threshold that use a Governmentwide commercial purchase

card as both the purchasing and payment mechanism, as opposed to using the purchase card for

payment only;

(2) Classified contracts (see [2.101](/part-2/2.101) ) when registration in SAM, or use of SAM data, could compromise

the safeguarding of classified information  or national security;

(3) Contracts awarded by–

(i) Deployed contracting officers  in the course of military operations, including, but not limited to,

contingency operations  as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(a)(13)  or humanitarian or peacekeeping

operations  as defined in 10 U.S.C. 3015(2) ;

(ii) Contracting  officers located outside the United States  and its outlying areas , as defined in [2.101](/part-2/2.101) ,

for work to be performed in support of diplomatic or developmental operations, including those

performed in support of foreign assistance programs overseas, in an area that has been designated

by the Department of State as a danger pay post (see https://aoprals.state.gov/ );or

(iii) Contracting  officers in the conduct of emergency  operations, such as responses to natural or

environmental disasters or national or civil emergencies , e.g., Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and

Emergency  Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5121 );

(4) Contracts with individuals for performance outside the United States  and its outlying areas ;

(5) Contracts awarded without providing for full and open competition  due to unusual or compelling

urgency (see [6.302-2](/part-6/6.302-2) );

(6) Contract actions at or below $40,000  awarded to foreign vendors for work performed outside the

United States , if it is impractical to obtain SAM registration; and

(7) Micro-purchases  that do not use the electronic funds transfer (EFT ) method for payment and are

not required to be reported (see subpart  [4.6](/part-4/4.6) ).

(b) If practical, the contracting officer  shall  modify the contract or agreement  awarded under

paragraph (a)(3) of this section to require SAM registration.

(c) Contracting  officers shall  use the legal business name or "doing business as" name and physical

address from the contractor's SAM registration for the provided unique entity identifier  to identify

the contractor in section A of the contract schedule, similar sections of non-uniform contract formats

and agreements , and all corresponding forms and data exchanges. Contracting officers  shall  make

no changes to the data retrieved from SAM.

(d)

(1)

(i) If a contractor has legally changed its business name or "doing business as" name (whichever is

shown on the contract), or has transferred the assets used in performing the contract, but has not

completed the necessary requirements regarding novation and change-of-name agreements  in

subpart  [42.12](/part-42/42.12) , the contractor is required to provide the responsible contracting officer  a minimum

of one business day's written notification of its intention to change the name in SAM, comply with

the requirements of subpart  [42.12](/part-42/42.12) , and agree in writing  to the timeline and procedures specified by

the responsible contracting officer . Along with the notification, the contractor is required to provide

the contracting officer  sufficient documentation to support the legally changed name.

(ii) If the contractor fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(i) of the clause at

[52.204-13](/part-52/52.204-13) , System for Award Management  Maintenance, or fails to perform the agreement  at

[52.204-13](/part-52/52.204-13) , paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C), and, in the absence of a properly executed novation or change-of-

name agreement , the SAM information that shows the contractor to be other than the contractor

indicated in the contract will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the

"Suspension  of Payment" paragraph of the EFT clause of the contract.

(2) The contractor shall  not change the name or address for electronic funds transfer  payments

(EFT) or manual payments, as appropriate, in the SAM record to reflect an assignee for the purpose

of assignment of claims  (see subpart  [32.8](/part-32/32.8) , Assignment of Claims ).

(3) Assignees shall  be separately registered in SAM. Information provided to the contractor’s SAM

record that indicates payments, including those made by EFT, to an ultimate recipient other than

that contractor will be considered to be incorrect information within the meaning of the " Suspension

of payment" paragraph of the EFT clause of the contract.

4.1103  Procedures.

(a) Unless the acquisition  is exempt under 4.1102 (a), the contracting officer —

(1) Shall  verify that the offeror  or quoter is registered in SAM (see paragraph (b) of this section) at

the time an offer  or quotation is submitted;

(2) Should  use the unique entity identifier  to verify SAM registration–

(i) Via https://www.sam.gov ; or

(ii) As otherwise provided by agency procedures; or

(3) Need not verify SAM registration before placing an order or call if the contract or agreement

includes the clause at [52.204-13](/part-52/52.204-13) , System for Award Management  Maintenance, or a similar agency

clause, except when use of the Governmentwide commercial purchase card is contemplated as a

method of payment. (See 32.1108 (b)(2).)

(b) If the contract action is being awarded in accordance with 4.1102 (a)(5), the contractor is

required to be registered in SAM within 30 days after contract award, or at least three days prior to

submission of the first invoice , whichever occurs first.

(c) Agencies shall  protect against improper disclosure of information contained in SAM.

(d) The contracting officer  shall , on contractual documents transmitted to the payment office,

provide the unique entity identifier , or, if applicable, the Electronic Funds Transfer  indicator, in

accordance with agency procedures.

4.1104  Disaster Response Registry.

Contracting officers  shall  consult the Disaster Response Registry  via https://www.sam.gov , Search

Records, Advanced Search, Disaster Response Registry  Search when contracting  for debris removal,

distribution of supplies , reconstruction, and other disaster or emergency  relief activities inside the

United States  and outlying areas . (See [26.205](/part-26/26.205) ).

4.1105  Solicitation provision and contract clauses.

(a)

(1) Insert the provision at [52.204-7](/part-52/52.204-7) , System for Award Management , in all solicitations  except when

the conditions in 4.1102 (a) apply.

(2) Insert the provision at [52.204-7](/part-52/52.204-7) , System for Award Management , with its Alternate  I when the

solicitation  is anticipated to be awarded in accordance with 4.1102 (a)(5).

(b) Insert the clause at [52.204-13](/part-52/52.204-13) , System for Award Management  Maintenance, in solicitations  that

contain the provision at [52.204-7](/part-52/52.204-7) , and resulting contracts.

Subpart [4.12](/part-4/4.12)  - Representations and Certifications

4.1200  Scope.

This subpart prescribes policies and procedures for requiring submission and maintenance of

representations and certifications via the System for Award Management (SAM ) to-

(a) Eliminate the administrative burden for contractors of submitting the same information to

various contracting offices ;

(b) Establish a common source for this information to procurement  offices across the Government;

and

(c) Incorporate by reference the contractor’s representations and certifications in the awarded

contract.

4.1201  Policy.

(a) Offerors  and quoters are required to complete electronic annual representations and

certifications in SAM accessed via https://www.sam.gov  as a part of required registration (see FAR

4.1102 ).

(b)

(1) All registrants are required to review and update the representations and certifications

submitted to SAM as necessary, but at least annually, to ensure they are kept current, accurate, and

complete. The representations and certifications are effective until one year from date of submission

or update to SAM.

(2) A contractors that represented itself as a small business prior to award of a contract must  update

the representations and certifications in SAM in accordance with [52.219-28](/part-52/52.219-28) , A contractor that

represented itself as other than small business before contract award and qualifies as a small

business may update its representations and certifications in SAM in accordance with [52.219-28](/part-52/52.219-28) .

(c) Data in SAM is archived and is electronically retrievable. Therefore, when a prospective

contractor has completed representations and certifications electronically in SAM, the contracting

officer  must  reference the date of SAM verification in the contract file to satisfy contract file

documentation requirements of [4.803](/part-4/4.803) (a)(11). However, if an offeror  identifies changes to SAM data

pursuant to the FAR provisions at [52.204-8](/part-52/52.204-8) (d) or [52.212-3](/part-52/52.212-3) (b), the contracting officer  must  include a

copy of the changes in the contract file.

(d) The contracting officer  shall  incorporate the representations and certifications by reference in

the contract (see [52.204-19](/part-52/52.204-19) , or for acquisitions  of commercial products  or commercial services  see

[52.212-4](/part-52/52.212-4) (v)).

4.1202  Solicitation provision and contract clause.

(a) Insert the provision at [52.204-8](/part-52/52.204-8) , Annual Representations and Certifications, in solicitations ,

except for solicitations  for commercial products  or commercial services  issued under part 12. The

contracting officer  shall  check the applicable provisions at [52.204-8](/part-52/52.204-8) (c)(2). Use the provision with its

Alternate  I in solicitations  issued after October 1, 2028, that will result in a multiple-award contract

with more than one North American Industry Classification System code assigned (see [19.102](/part-19/19.102) (b)).

When the provision at [52.204-7](/part-52/52.204-7) , System for Award Management , is included in the solicitation , do

not separately include the following representations and certifications:

(1) [52.203-2](/part-52/52.203-2) , Certificate of Independent Price Determination.

(2) [52.203-11](/part-52/52.203-11) , Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal

Transactions.

(3) [52.203-18](/part-52/52.203-18) , Prohibition on Contracting  with Entities that Require Certain Internal Confidentiality

Agreements or Statements-Representation.

(4) [52.204-3](/part-52/52.204-3) , Taxpayer Identification.

(5) [52.204-5](/part-52/52.204-5) , Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business).

(6) [52.204-17](/part-52/52.204-17) , Ownership or Control of Offeror .

(7) [52.204-20](/part-52/52.204-20) , Predecessor of Offeror .

(8) [52.204-26](/part-52/52.204-26) , Covered Telecommunications Equipment or Services-Representation.

(9) [52.209-2](/part-52/52.209-2) , Prohibition on Contracting  with Inverted Domestic Corporations-Representation.

(10) [52.209-5](/part-52/52.209-5) , Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters.

(11) [52.209-11](/part-52/52.209-11) , Representation by Corporations Regarding Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony

Conviction  under any Federal Law.

(12) [52.214-14](/part-52/52.214-14) , Place of Performance-Sealed Bidding.

(13) [52.215-6](/part-52/52.215-6) , Place of Performance.

(14) [52.219-1](/part-52/52.219-1) , Small Business Program Representations (Basic, Alternates  I, and II).

(15) [52.219-2](/part-52/52.219-2) , Equal Low Bids.

(16) [Reserved]

(17) [52.222-18](/part-52/52.222-18) , Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products .

(18) [52.222-22](/part-52/52.222-22) , Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports.

(19) [52.222-25](/part-52/52.222-25) , Affirmative Action Compliance.

(20) [52.222-38](/part-52/52.222-38) , Compliance with Veterans’ Employment Reporting Requirements.

(21) [52.222-48](/part-52/52.222-48) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts

for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment–Certification.

(22) [52.222-52](/part-52/52.222-52) , Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts

for Certain Services-Certification.

(23) [52.223-1](/part-52/52.223-1) , Biobased Product  Certification.

(24) [52.223-4](/part-52/52.223-4) , Recovered Material  Certification.

(25) [52.223-22](/part-52/52.223-22) , Public Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Reduction Goals-Representation.

(26) [52.225-2](/part-52/52.225-2) , Buy American Certificate.

(27) [52.225-4](/part-52/52.225-4) , Buy American-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate (Basic, Alternates

II, and III).

(28) [52.225-6](/part-52/52.225-6) , Trade Agreements Certificate.

(29) [52.225-20](/part-52/52.225-20) , Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan-Certification.

(30) [52.225-25](/part-52/52.225-25) , Prohibition on Contracting  with Entities Engaging in Certain Activities or

Transactions Relating to Iran-Representation and Certifications.

(31) [52.226-2](/part-52/52.226-2) , Historically Black College or University  and Minority Institution  Representation.

(32) [52.227-6](/part-52/52.227-6) , Royalty Information (Basic & Alternate  I).

(33) [52.227-15](/part-52/52.227-15) , Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software .

(b) The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause at [52.204-19](/part-52/52.204-19) , Incorporation by Reference of

Representations and Certifications, in solicitations  and contracts.

Subpart [4.13](/part-4/4.13)  - Personal Identity Verification

4.1300  Scope of subpart.

This subpart provides policy and procedures associated with Personal Identity Verification as

required by-

(a) Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201, "Personal

Identity Verification of Federal Employees and Contractors"; and

(b) Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Guidance M-05-24, dated August 5, 2005,

"Implementation of Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12-Policy for a Common

Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors."

4.1301  Policy.

(a) Agencies must  follow FIPS PUB Number 201 and the associated OMB implementation guidance

for personal identity verification for all affected contractor and subcontractor personnel when

contract performance requires contractors to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled

facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system .

(b) Agencies must  include their implementation of FIPS PUB 201 and OMB Guidance M-05-24 in

solicitations  and contracts that require the contractor to have routine physical access to a Federally-

controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system .

(c) Agencies must  designate an official responsible for verifying contractor employee personal

identity.

(d)

(1) Agency procedures for the return of Personal Identity Verification (PIV) products  shall  ensure

that Government contractors account for all forms of Government-provided identification issued to

Government contractor employees under a contract, i.e., the PIV cards or other similar badges, and

shall  ensure that contractors return such identification to the issuing agency as soon as any of the

following occurs, unless otherwise determined by the agency:

(i) When no longer needed for contract performance.

(ii) Upon completion of a contractor employee’s employment.

(iii) Upon contract completion or termination.

(2) The contracting officer  may delay final payment under a contract if the contractor fails to comply

with these requirements.

4.1302  Acquisition of approved products and services for personal identity

verification.

(a) In order to comply with FIPS PUB 201, agencies must  purchase only approved personal identity

verification products  and services.

(b) Agencies may acquire the approved products  and services from the GSA, Federal Supply

Schedule 70, Special Item Number (SIN) 132-62, HSPD-12 Product and Service Components , in

accordance with ordering procedures outlined in FAR subpart  [8.4](/part-8/8.4) .

(c) When acquiring personal identity verification products  and services not using the process in

paragraph (b) of this section, agencies must  ensure that the applicable products  and services are

approved as compliant with FIPS PUB 201 including-

(1) Certifying the products  and services procured meet all applicable Federal standards and

requirements;

(2) Ensuring interoperability and conformance to applicable Federal standards for the lifecycle of

the components ; and

(3) Maintaining a written plan for ensuring ongoing conformance to applicable Federal standards for

the lifecycle of the components .

(d) For more information on personal identity verification products  and services see

http://www.idmanagement.gov .

4.1303  Contract clause.

The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause at [52.204-9](/part-52/52.204-9) , Personal Identity Verification of

Contractor Personnel, in solicitations  and contracts when contract performance requires contractors

to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-

controlled information system . The clause shall  not be used when contractors require only

intermittent access to Federally-controlled facilities .

Subpart [4.14](/part-4/4.14)  - Reporting Executive Compensation and First-

Tier Subcontract Awards

4.1400  Scope of subpart.

This subpart implements section 2 of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of

2006 (Pub.L.109-282), as amended by section 6202 of the Government Funding Transparency Act of

2008 (Pub. L. 110-252), which requires contractors to report subcontract award data and the total

compensation of the five most highly compensated executives of the contractor and subcontractor.

The public may view first-tier subcontract award data at http://www.usaspending.gov .

4.1401  Applicability.

(a) This subpart applies to all contracts with a value of $40,000  or more. Nothing in this subpart

requires the disclosure of classified information .

(b) Reporting of subcontract information will be limited to the first-tier subcontractor.

4.1402  Procedures.

(a) Agencies shall  ensure that contractors comply with the reporting requirements of [52.204-10](/part-52/52.204-10) ,

Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards. Agencies shall  review

contractor reports on a quarterly basis to ensure the information is consistent with contract

information. The agency is not required to address data for which the agency would not normally

have supporting information, such as the compensation information required of contractors and

first-tier subcontractors. However, the agency shall  inform the contractor of any inconsistencies with

the contract information and require that the contractor correct the report, or provide a reasonable

explanation as to why it believes the information is correct. Agencies may review the reports at

http://www.fsrs.gov .

(b) When contracting officers  report the contract action to the Federal Procurement  Data System

(FPDS) in accordance with FAR subpart  [4.6](/part-4/4.6) , certain data will then pre-populate from FPDS, to assist

contractors in completing and submitting their reports. If data originating from FPDS is found by the

contractor to be in error when the contractor completes the subcontract report, the contractor

should  notify the Government contracting officer , who is responsible for correcting the data in

FPDS. Contracts reported using the generic entity identifier allowed at FAR [4.605](/part-4/4.605) (c)(2) will interfere

with the contractor’s ability to comply with this reporting requirement, because the data will not

pre-populate from FPDS.

(c) If the contractor fails to comply with the reporting requirements, the contracting officer  shall

exercise appropriate contractual remedies. In addition, the contracting officer  shall  make the

contractor’s failure to comply with the reporting requirements a part of the contractor’s

performance information under subpart  [42.15](/part-42/42.15) .

(d) There is a reporting exception in [52.204-10](/part-52/52.204-10) (g) for contractors and subcontractors who had gross

income in the previous tax year under $300,000.

4.1403  Contract clause.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the contracting officer  shall  insert the clause

at [52.204-10](/part-52/52.204-10) , Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards, in all

solicitations  and contracts of $40,000  or more.

(b) The clause is not prescribed for contracts that are not required to be reported in the Federal

Procurement  Data System (FPDS) (see subpart  [4.6](/part-4/4.6) ).

Subpart [4.15](/part-4/4.15)  - [Reserved]

4.1500  [Reserved]

4.1501  [Reserved]

4.1502  [Reserved]

Subpart [4.16](/part-4/4.16)  - Unique Procurement Instrument Identifiers

4.1600  Scope of subpart.

This subpart prescribes policies and procedures for assigning unique Procurement  Instrument

Identifiers (PIID) for each solicitation , contract, agreement, or order and related procurement

instrument.

4.1601  Policy.

(a) Establishment of a Procurement Instrument Identifier (PIID ). Agencies shall  have in place a

process that ensures that each PIID used to identify a solicitation  or contract action is unique

Governmentwide, and will remain so for at least 20 years from the date of contract award. The PIID

shall  be used to identify all solicitation  and contract actions. The PIID shall  also be used to identify

solicitation  and contract actions in designated support and reporting systems (e.g., Federal

Procurement  Data System, System for Award Management ), in accordance with regulations,

applicable authorities, and agency policies and procedures.)

(b) Transition of PIID numbering. No later than October 1, 2017, agencies shall  comply with

paragraph (a) of this section and use the requirements in 4.1602  and 4.1603  for all new solicitations

and contract awards. Until an agency’s transition is complete, it shall  maintain its 2013 PIID format

that is on record with the General Services Administration’s Integrated Award Environment Program

Office (which maintains a registry of the agency unique identifier scheme). The 2013 PIID format

consisted of alpha characters in the first positions to indicate the agency, followed by alpha-numeric

characters; the 2017 format instead has the AAC in the beginning 6 positions.

(c) Change in the Procurement Instrument Identifier  after its assignment.

(1) Agencies shall  not change the PIID unless one of the following two circumstances apply:

(i) The PIID serial numbering system is exhausted. In this instance, the contracting officer  may

assign a new PIID by issuing a contract modification .

(ii) Continued use of a PIID is administratively burdensome (e.g., for implementations of new agency

contract writing systems). In this instance, the contracting officer  may assign a new PIID by issuing

a contract modification .

(2) The modification shall  clearly identify both the original and the newly assigned PIID. Issuance of

a new PIID is an administrative change (see [43.101](/part-43/43.101) ).

4.1602  Identifying the PIID and supplementary PIID.

(a) Identifying the PIID in solicitation  and contract award documentation (including forms and

electronic generated formats).  Agencies shall  include all PIIDs for all related procurement  actions as

identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Solicitation . Identify the PIID for all solicitations . For amendments to solicitations , identify a

supplementary PIID, in conjunction with the PIID for the solicitation .

(2) Contracts and purchase orders . Identify the PIID for contracts and purchase orders .

(3) Delivery and task orders . For delivery and task orders  placed by an agency under a contract

(e.g., indefinite delivery indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts, multi-agency contracts (MAC),

Governmentwide acquisition  contracts (GWACs), or Multiple Award Schedule (MAS) contracts),

identify the PIID for the delivery and task order  and the PIID for the contract.

(4) Blanket purchase agreements and basic ordering agreements.  Identify the PIID for blanket

purchase agreements issued in accordance with [13.303](/part-13/13.303) , and for basic agreements and basic

ordering agreements issued in accordance with subpart [16.7](/part-16/16.7). For blanket purchase agreements

issued in accordance with subpart [8.4](/part-8/8.4) under a MAS contract, identify the PIID for the blanket

purchase agreement and the PIID for the MAS contract.

(i) Orders . For orders against basic ordering agreements or blanket purchase agreements issued in

accordance with [13.303](/part-13/13.303) , identify the PIID for the order and the PIID for the blanket purchase

agreement or basic ordering agreement.

(ii) Orders under subpart [8.4](/part-8/8.4). For orders against a blanket purchase agreement established under a

MAS contract, identify the PIID for the order, the PIID for the blanket purchase agreement, and the

PIID for the MAS contract.

(5) Modifications.  For modifications to actions described in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this

section, and in accordance with agency procedures, identify a supplementary PIID for the

modification in conjunction with the PIID for the contract, order, or agreement being modified.

(b) Placement of the PIID on forms.  When the form (including electronic generated format) does not

provide spaces or fields for the PIID or supplementary PIID required in paragraph (a) of this section,

identify the PIID in accordance with agency procedures.

(c) Additional agency specific identification information. If agency procedures require additional

identification information in solicitations , contracts, or other related procurement  instruments for

administrative purposes, separate and clearly identify the additional information from the PIID.

4.1603  Procedures.

(a) Elements of a PIID . The PIID consists of a combination of thirteen to seventeen alpha and/or

numeric characters sequenced to convey certain information. Do not use special characters (such as

hyphens, dashes, or spaces).

(1) Positions 1 through 6 . The first six positions identify the department/agency and office issuing

the instrument. Use the AAC assigned to the issuing office for positions 1 through 6. Civilian agency

points of contact for obtaining an AAC are on the AAC Contact list maintained by the General

Services Administration and can be found at https://community.max.gov/x/24foL . For Department of

Defense (DoD) inquiries, contact the service/agency Central Service Point or DoD AAC Monitor, or if

unknown, email DODAADHQ@DLA.MIL  for assistance.

(2) Positions 7 through 8 . The seventh and eighth positions are the last two digits of the fiscal year in

which the procurement  instrument is issued or awarded. This is the date the action is signed, not the

effective date if the effective date is different.

(3) Position 9 . Indicate the type of instrument by entering one of the following upper case letters in

position nine. Departments and independent agencies may assign those letters identified for

department use below in accordance with their agency policy; however, any use must  be applied to

the entire department or agency.

InstrumentLetter

designation

(i) Blanket purchase agreements A

(ii) invitations for bids B

(iii)Contracts of all types except indefinite-delivery contracts (see

subpart [16.5](/part-16/16.5))C

(iv) Indefinite-delivery contracts (including Federal Supply Schedules,

Governmentwide acquisition  contracts (GWACs), and multi-agency

contracts)D

(v) Reserved for future Federal Governmentwide use E

(vi) Task orders , delivery orders  or calls under–

Indefinite-delivery contracts (including Federal Supply Schedules,

Governmentwide acquisition  contracts (GWACs), and multi-agency

contracts);

Blanket purchase agreements; or

Basic ordering agreementsF

(vii) Basic ordering agreements. G

(viii) Agreements, including basic agreements and loan agreements, but

excluding blanket purchase agreements, basic ordering agreements,

and leases. Do not use this code for contracts or agreements with

provisions for orders or callsH

InstrumentLetter

designation

(ix) Do not use this letter I

(x) Reserved for future Federal Governmentwide use J

(xi) Reserved for departmental or agency use K

(xii) Lease agreements L

(xiii) Reserved for departmental or agency use M

(xiv) Reserved for departmental or agency use N

(xv) Do not use this letter O

(xvi) Purchase orders  (assign V if numbering capacity of P is exhausted

during a fiscal year)P

(xvii) Requests for quotations (assign U if numbering capacity of Q is

exhausted during a fiscal year)Q

(xviii) Requests for proposals R

(xix) Reserved for departmental or agency use S

(xx) Reserved for departmental or agency use T

(xxi) See Q, requests for quotations U

(xxii) See P, purchase orders V

(xxiii) Reserved for future Federal Governmentwide use W

(xxiv) Reserved for future Federal Governmentwide use X

(xxv) Imprest fund Y

(xxvi) Reserved for future Federal Governmentwide use Z

(4) Positions 10 through 17. Enter the number assigned by the issuing agency in these positions.

Agencies may choose a minimum of four characters up to a maximum of eight characters to be used,

but the same number of characters must  be used agency-wide. If a number less than the maximum is

used, do not use leading or trailing zeroes to make it equal the maximum in any system or data

transmission. A separate series of numbers may be used for any type of instrument listed in

paragraph (a)(3) of this section. An agency may reserve blocks of numbers or alpha-numeric

numbers for use by its various components .

(5) Illustration of PIID. The following illustrates a properly configured PIID using four characters in

the final positions:

(b) Elements of a supplementary PIID . Use the supplementary PIID to identify amendments to

solicitations  and modifications to contracts, orders, and agreements. The supplementary PIID is

reported as a separate data element used in conjunction with, but not appended to, the PIID.

(1) Amendments to solicitations . Number amendments to solicitations  sequentially using a four

position numeric serial number added to the 13-17 character PIID beginning with 0001.

(2) Modifications to contracts, orders, and agreements. Number modifications to contracts, orders,

and agreements using a six position alpha or numeric, or a combination thereof, added to the 13-17

character PIID. For example, a modification could be numbered P00001. This would be added to the

end of the 13-17 character PIID illustrated in (a)(5) of this section.

(i) Position 1. Identify the office issuing the modification. The letter P shall  be designated for

modifications issued by the procuring contracting office . The letter A shall  be used for modifications

issued by the contract administration office  (if other than the procuring contracting office ).

(ii) Positions 2 through 6. These positions may be alpha, numeric, or a combination thereof, in

accordance with agency procedures.

(iii) Each office authorized to issue modifications shall  assign the supplementary identification

numbers in sequence (unless provided otherwise in agency procedures). Do not assign the numbers

until it has been determined that a modification is to be issued.

Subpart [4.17](/part-4/4.17)  - Service Contracts Inventory

4.1700  Scope of subpart.

This subpart implements section 743(a) of Division C of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2010

(Pub. L. 111-117), which requires agencies to report annually to the Office of Management and

Budget (OMB) on activities performed by service contractors. Section 743(a) applies to executive

agencies , other than the Department of Defense (DoD), covered by the Federal Activities Inventory

Reform Act (Pub. L. 105-270) (FAIR Act). The information reported in the inventory will be publicly

accessible.

4.1701  Definitions.

As used in this subpart–

FAIR Act agencies  means the agencies required under the FAIR Act to submit inventories annually

of the activities performed by Government personnel.

First-tier subcontract  means a subcontract awarded directly by the contractor for the purpose of

acquiring supplies  or services (including construction ) for performance of a prime contract. It does

not include the contractor’s supplier agreements with vendors, such as long-term arrangements for

materials or supplies  that benefit multiple contracts and/or the costs of which are normally applied

to a contractor’s general and administrative expenses or indirect costs .

4.1702  Applicability.

(a) This subpart applies to–

(1) All FAIR Act agencies , except DoD as specified in 4.1705 ;

(2) Solicitations , contracts, and orders for services (including construction ) that meet or exceed the

thresholds at 4.1703 ; and

(3) Contractors and first-tier subcontractors.

(b) Procedures for compiling and submitting agency service contract inventories are governed by

section 743(a)(3) of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117 and Office of Federal Procurement  Policy (OFPP)

guidance. The guidance is available at the following Web site: https://www.whitehouse.gov/

wp-content/​uploads/​legacy_​drupal_​files/​omb/​memoranda/​2017/​service_​contract_​inventories.pdf .

(c) This subpart addresses requirements for obtaining information from, and reporting by, agency

service contractors.

4.1703  Reporting requirements.

(a) Thresholds.

(1) Except as exempted by OFPP guidance, service contractor reporting shall  be required for

contracts and first-tier subcontracts  for services based on type of contract and estimated total value.

For indefinite-delivery contracts, reporting shall  be determined based on the type and estimated

total value of each order under the contract. Indefinite-delivery contracts include, but are not limited

to, contracts such as indefinite-delivery indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) contracts, Federal Supply

Schedule contracts (FSSs), Governmentwide acquisition  contracts (GWACs), and multi-agency

contracts.

(2) Reporting is required according to the following thresholds:

(i) All cost-reimbursement, time-and-materials, and labor-hour service contracts and orders with an

estimated total value above the simplified acquisition threshold .

(ii) All fixed-price service contracts awarded and orders issued according to the following thresholds:

(A) Awarded or issued in Fiscal Year 2014, with an estimated total value of $[2.5](/part-2/2.5) million or greater.

(B) Awarded or issued in Fiscal Year 2015, with an estimated total value of $1 million or greater.

(C) Awarded or issued in Fiscal Year 2016, and subsequent years, with an estimated total value of

$500,000 or greater.

(3) Reporting is required for all first-tier subcontracts  for services as prescribed in paragraphs

(a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(b) Agency reporting responsibilities.

(1) Agencies shall  ensure that contractors comply with the reporting requirements of [52.204-14](/part-52/52.204-14) ,

Service Contract Reporting Requirements and [52.204-15](/part-52/52.204-15) , Service Contract Reporting Requirements

for Indefinite-Delivery Contracts. Agencies shall  review contractor reported information for

reasonableness and consistency with available contract information. The agency is not required to

address data for which the agency would not normally have supporting information. In the event the

agency believes that revisions to the contractor reported information are warranted, the agency

shall  notify the contractor no later than November 15. By November 30, the contractor shall  revise

the report, or document its rationale for the agency. Authorized agency officials may review the

reports at www.sam.gov .

(2) Agencies are required to compile annually an inventory of service contracts performed for, or on

behalf of, the agency during the prior fiscal year in order to determine the extent of the agency’s

reliance on service contractors. Agencies shall  submit a service contract inventory to OMB by

January 15 annually. Then, each agency must  post the inventory on its Web site and publish a

Federal Register Notice of Availability by February 15 annually.

(3) Most of the required information is already collected in the Federal Procurement  Data System

(FPDS). Information not collected in FPDS will be provided by the contractor, as specified in

[52.204-14](/part-52/52.204-14) , Service Contract Reporting Requirements and [52.204-15](/part-52/52.204-15) , Service Contract Reporting

Requirements for Indefinite-Delivery Contracts.

4.1704  Contracting officer responsibilities.

(a) For other than indefinite-delivery contracts, the contracting officer  shall  ensure that [52.204-14](/part-52/52.204-14) ,

Service Reporting Requirement, is included in solicitations , contracts, and orders as prescribed at

4.1705 . For indefinite-delivery contracts, the contracting officer  who awarded the contract shall

ensure that [52.204-15](/part-52/52.204-15)  Service Contract Reporting Requirements for Indefinite-Delivery Contracts, is

included in solicitations  and contracts as prescribed at 4.1705 . The contracting officer  at the order

level shall  verify the clause’s inclusion in the contract.

(b) If the contractor fails to submit a report in a timely manner, the contracting officer  shall  exercise

appropriate contractual remedies. In addition, the contracting officer  shall  make the contractor’s

failure to comply with the reporting requirements a part of the contractor’s performance information

under subpart  [42.15](/part-42/42.15) .

4.1705  Contract clauses.

(a) The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause at [52.204-14](/part-52/52.204-14) , Service Contract Reporting

Requirements, in solicitations  and contracts for services (including construction ) that meet or

exceed the thresholds at 4.1703 , except for indefinite-delivery contracts. This clause is not required

for actions entirely funded by DoD, contracts awarded with a generic entity identifier, or in classified

solicitations , contracts, or orders.

(b) The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause at [52.204-15](/part-52/52.204-15) , Service Contract Reporting

Requirements for Indefinite-Delivery Contracts, in solicitations  and indefinite-delivery contracts for

services (including construction ) where one or more orders issued thereunder are expected to each

meet or exceed the thresholds at 4.1703 . This clause is not required for actions entirely funded by

DoD, contracts awarded with a generic entity identifier, or in classified solicitations , contracts, or

orders.

Subpart [4.18](/part-4/4.18)  - Commercial and Government Entity Code

4.1800  Scope of subpart.

(a) This subpart prescribes policies and procedures for identification of commercial and government

entities. The Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code  system may be used, among other

things, to–

(1) Exchange data with another contracting activity , including contract administration activities and

contract payment activities.

(2) Exchange data with another system that requires the unique identification of a contractor entity;

or

(3) Identify when offerors  are owned or controlled by another entity.

(b) For information on the unique entity identifier , which is a different identifier, see [4.605](/part-4/4.605)  and the

provisions at [52.204-6](/part-52/52.204-6) , Unique Entity Identifier , and [52.204-7](/part-52/52.204-7) , System for Award Management .

4.1801  Definitions.

As used in this part–

Highest-level owner  means the entity that owns or controls an immediate owner  of the offeror , or

that owns or controls one or more entities that control an immediate owner  of the offeror . No entity

owns or exercises control of the highest level owner.

Immediate owner  means an entity, other than the offeror , that has direct control of the offeror .

Indicators of control include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following: ownership or

interlocking management, identity of interests among family members, shared facilities and

equipment, and the common use of employees.

4.1802  Policy.

(a) Commercial and Government Entity code.

(1) Offerors  shall  provide the contracting officer  the CAGE code assigned to that offeror 's location

prior to the award of a contract action above the micro-purchase threshold , when there is a

requirement to be registered in the System for Award Management (SAM ) or a requirement to have

a unique entity identifier  in the solicitation .

(2) The contracting officer  shall  include the contractor’s CAGE code in the contract and in any

electronic transmissions of the contract data to other systems when it is provided in accordance with

paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(b) Ownership or control of offeror . Offerors , if owned or controlled by another entity, shall  provide

the contracting officer  with the CAGE code and legal name of that entity prior to the award of a

contract action above the micro-purchase threshold , when there is a requirement to be registered in

SAM or a requirement to have a unique entity identifier  in the solicitation .

4.1803  Verifying CAGE codes prior to award.

(a) Contracting officers  shall  verify the offeror ’s CAGE code by reviewing the entity’s registration in

the System for Award Management (SAM ). Active registrations in SAM have had the associated

CAGE codes verified.

(b) For entities not required to be registered in SAM, the contracting officer  shall  validate the CAGE

code using the CAGE code search feature at https://cage.dla.mil .

4.1804  Solicitation provisions and contract clause.

(a) Insert the provision at [52.204-16](/part-52/52.204-16) , Commercial and Government Entity Code Reporting, in all

solicitations  that include–

(1) [52.204-6](/part-52/52.204-6) , Unique Entity Identifier ; or

(2) [52.204-7](/part-52/52.204-7) , System for Award Management .

(b) Insert the provision at [52.204-17](/part-52/52.204-17) , Ownership or Control of Offeror , in all solicitations  that include

the provision at [52.204-16](/part-52/52.204-16) , Commercial and Government Entity Code Reporting.

(c) Insert the clause at [52.204-18](/part-52/52.204-18) , Commercial and Government Entity Code Maintenance, in all

solicitations  and contracts when the solicitation  contains the provision at [52.204-16](/part-52/52.204-16) , Commercial

and Government Entity Code Reporting.

(d) Insert the provision at [52.204-20](/part-52/52.204-20) , Predecessor of Offeror , in all solicitations  that include the

provision at [52.204-16](/part-52/52.204-16) , Commercial and Government Entity Code Reporting.

Subpart [4.19](/part-4/4.19)  - Basic Safeguarding of Covered Contractor

Information Systems

4.1901  Definitions.

As used in this subpart–

Covered contractor information system  means an information system  that is owned or operated by a

contractor that processes, stores, or transmits Federal contract information .

Federal contract information  means information , not intended for public release, that is provided by

or generated for the Government under a contract to develop or deliver a product or service to the

Government, but not including information  provided by the Government to the public (such as that

on public Web sites) or simple transactional information , such as that necessary to process

payments.

Information  means any communication or representation of knowledge such as facts, data, or

opinions in any medium or form, including textual, numerical, graphic, cartographic, narrative, or

audiovisual (Committee on National Security Systems Instruction (CNSSI) 4009).

Information system  means a discrete set of information  resources organized for the collection,

processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information  (44 U.S.C. 3502 ).

Safeguarding  means measures or controls that are prescribed to protect information systems .

4.1902  Applicability.

This subpart applies to all acquisitions , including acquisitions  of commercial products  or commercial

services  other than commercially available off-the-shelf items, when a contractor's information

system  may contain Federal contract information .

4.1903  Contract clause.

The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause at [52.204-21](/part-52/52.204-21) , Basic Safeguarding  of Covered

Contractor Information Systems , in solicitations  and contracts when the contractor or a

subcontractor at any tier may have Federal contract information  residing in or transiting through its

information system .

Subpart [4.20](/part-4/4.20)  Prohibition on Contracting for Hardware,

Software, and Services Developed or Provided by Kaspersky

Lab

4.2001  Definitions.

As used in this subpart—

Kaspersky Lab covered article  means any hardware, software, or service that–

(1) Is developed or provided by a Kaspersky Lab covered entity

(2) Includes any hardware, software, or service developed or provided in whole or in part by a

Kaspersky Lab covered entity ; or

(3) Contains components  using any hardware or software developed in whole or in part by a

Kaspersky Lab covered entity .

Kaspersky Lab covered entity  means–

(1) Kaspersky Lab;

(2) Any successor entity to Kaspersky Lab, including any change in name, e.g., “Kaspersky”;

(3) Any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with Kaspersky Lab; or

(4) Any entity of which Kaspersky Lab has a majority ownership.

4.2002  Prohibition.

Section 1634 of Division A of the National Defense  Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Pub. L.

115-91) prohibits Government use on or after October 1, 2018, of any hardware, software, or

services developed or provided, in whole or in part, by a covered entity. Contractors are prohibited

from—

(a) Providing any Kaspersky Lab covered article  that the Government will use on or after October 1,

2018; and

(b) Using any Kaspersky Lab covered article  on or after October 1, 2018, in the development of data

or deliverables first produced in the performance of the contract.

4.2003  Notification.

When a contractor provides notification pursuant to [52.204-23](/part-52/52.204-23) , follow agency procedures.

4.2004  Contract clause.

The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause at [52.204-23](/part-52/52.204-23) , Prohibition on Contracting  for

Hardware, Software, and Services Developed or Provided by Kaspersky Lab Covered Entities , in all

solicitations  and contracts.

Subpart [4.21](/part-4/4.21)  Prohibition on Contracting for Certain

Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or

Equipment

4.2100  Scope of subpart.

This subpart implements paragraphs (a)(1)(A) and (a)(1)(B) of section 889 of the John S. McCain

National Defense  Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L. 115-232).

4.2101  Definitions.

As used in this subpart—

Backhaul  means intermediate links between the core network, or backbone network, and the small

subnetworks at the edge of the network ( e.g., connecting cell phones/towers to the core telephone

network). Backhaul can be wireless ( e.g., microwave) or wired ( e.g., fiber optic, coaxial cable,

Ethernet).

Covered foreign country  means The People’s Republic of China.

Covered telecommunications equipment or services  means–

(1) Telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei Technologies Company or ZTE Corporation,

(or any subsidiary or affiliate of such entities);

(2) For the purpose of public safety, security of Government facilities, physical security surveillance

of critical infrastructure, and other national security purposes, video surveillance and

telecommunications equipment produced by Hytera Communications Corporation, Hangzhou

Hikvision Digital Technology Company, or Dahua Technology Company (or any subsidiary or affiliate

of such entities);

(3) Telecommunications or video surveillance services provided by such entities or using such

equipment; or

(4) Telecommunications or video surveillance equipment or services produced or provided by an

entity that the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence or the

Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, reasonably believes to be an entity owned or

controlled by, or otherwise connected to, the government of a covered foreign country .

Critical technology  means–

(1) Defense articles or defense services included on the United States  Munitions List set forth in the

International Traffic in Arms Regulations under subchapter M of chapter I of title 22, Code of

Federal Regulations;

(2) Items included on the Commerce Control List set forth in Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the

Export Administration Regulations under subchapter C of chapter VII of title 15, Code of Federal

Regulations, and controlled-

(i) Pursuant to multilateral regimes, including for reasons relating to national security, chemical and

biological weapons proliferation, nuclear nonproliferation, or missile technology; or

(ii) For reasons relating to regional stability or surreptitious listening;

(3) Specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components , materials, software,

and technology covered by part 810 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to assistance to

foreign atomic energy activities);

(4) Nuclear facilities, equipment, and material covered by part 110 of title 10, Code of Federal

Regulations (relating to export and import of nuclear equipment and material);

(5) Select agents and toxins covered by part 331 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, part 121 of

title 9 of such Code, or part 73 of title 42 of such Code; or

(6) Emerging and foundational technologies controlled pursuant to section 1758 of the Export

Control Reform Act of 2018 ( 50 U.S.C. 4817 ).

Interconnection arrangements  means arrangements governing the physical connection of two or

more networks to allow the use of another's network to hand off traffic where it is ultimately

delivered ( e.g., connection of a customer of telephone provider A to a customer of telephone

company B) or sharing data and other information resources.

Reasonable inquiry  means an inquiry designed to uncover any information in the entity's possession

about the identity of the producer or provider of covered telecommunications equipment or services

used by the entity that excludes the need to include an internal or third-party audit.

Roaming  means cellular communications services ( e.g., voice, video, data) received from a visited

network when unable to connect to the facilities of the home network either because signal coverage

is too weak or because traffic is too high.

Substantial or essential component  means any component  necessary for the proper function or

performance of a piece of equipment, system, or service.

4.2102  Prohibition.

(a) Prohibited equipment, systems, or services .

(1) On or after August 13, 2019, agencies are prohibited from procuring or obtaining, or extending

or renewing a contract to procure or obtain, any equipment, system, or service that uses covered

telecommunications equipment or services  as a substantial or essential component  of any system, or

as critical technology  as part of any system, unless an exception at paragraph (b) of this section

applies or the covered telecommunications equipment or services  are covered by a waiver described

in 4.2104 .

(2) On or after August 13, 2020, agencies are prohibited from entering into a contract, or extending

or renewing a contract, with an entity that uses any equipment, system, or service that uses covered

telecommunications equipment or services  as a substantial or essential component  of any system, or

as critical technology  as part of any system, unless an exception at paragraph (b) of this section

applies or the covered telecommunications equipment or services  are covered by a waiver described

in 4.2104 . This prohibition applies to the use of covered telecommunications equipment or services ,

regardless of whether that use is in performance of work under a Federal contract.

(b) Exceptions . This subpart does not prohibit agencies from procuring or contractors from

providing-

(1) A service that connects to the facilities of a third-party, such as backhaul, roaming, or

interconnection arrangements; or

(2) Telecommunications equipment that cannot route or redirect user data traffic or permit visibility

into any user data or packets that such equipment transmits or otherwise handles.

(c) Contracting Officers . Unless an exception at paragraph (b) of this section applies or the covered

telecommunications equipment or service is covered by a waiver described in 4.2104 , Contracting

Officers  shall  not—

(1) Procure or obtain, or extend or renew a contract ( e.g., exercise an option ) to procure or obtain,

any equipment, system, or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or services  as a

substantial or essential component  of any system, or as critical technology  as part of any system; or

(2) Enter into a contract, or extend or renew a contract, with an entity that uses any equipment,

system, or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or services  as a substantial or

essential component  of any system, or as critical technology  as part of any system.

(d) Recording prohibitions in the System for Award Management (SAM ).

(1) Prohibitions on purchases of products  or services produced or provided by entities identified in

paragraphs (1) and (2) of the definition of " covered telecommunications equipment or services "

(including known subsidiaries or affiliates ) at 4.2101  will be recorded in SAM (see [9.404](/part-9/9.404) ).

(2) Prohibitions on purchases of products  or services produced or provided by entities identified

pursuant to paragraph (4) of the definition of " covered telecommunications equipment or services "

(including known subsidiaries or affiliates ) at 4.2101  are recorded by the Department of Defense in

SAM (see [9.404](/part-9/9.404) ).

4.2103  Procedures.

(a) Representations.

(1)

(i) If the offeror  selects "does not" in paragraphs (c)(1) and/or (c)(2) of the provision at [52.204-26](/part-52/52.204-26)  or

in paragraphs (v)(2)(i) and/or (v)(2)(ii) of the provision at [52.212-3](/part-52/52.212-3) , the contracting officer  may rely

on the "does not" representation(s), unless the contracting officer  has reason to question the

representation. If the contracting officer  has a reason to question the representation, the contracting

officer  shall  follow agency procedures.

(ii) If the offeror  selects "does" in paragraph (c)(1) of the provision at [52.204-26](/part-52/52.204-26)  or paragraph

(v)(2)(i) of the provision at [52.212-3](/part-52/52.212-3) , the offeror  will be required to complete the representation in

paragraph (d)(1) of the provision at [52.204-24](/part-52/52.204-24) .

(iii) If the offeror  selects "does" in paragraph (c)(2) of the provision at [52.204-26](/part-52/52.204-26)  or paragraph

(v)(2)(ii) of the provision at [52.212-3](/part-52/52.212-3) , the offeror  will be required to complete the representation in

paragraph (d)(2) of the provision at [52.204-24](/part-52/52.204-24) .

(2)

(i) If the offeror  selects "will not" in paragraph (d)(1) of the provision at [52.204-24](/part-52/52.204-24)  or "does not" in

paragraph (d)(2) of the provision at [52.204-24](/part-52/52.204-24) , the contracting officer  may rely on the

representations, unless the contracting officer  has reason to question the representations. If the

contracting officer  has a reason to question the representations, the contracting officer  shall  follow

agency procedures.

(ii) If an offeror  selects "will" in paragraph (d)(1) of the provision at [52.204-24](/part-52/52.204-24) , the offeror  must

provide the information required by paragraph (e)(1) of the provision at [52.204-24](/part-52/52.204-24) , and the

contracting officer  shall  follow agency procedures.

(iii) If an offeror  selects "does" in paragraph (d)(2) of the provision at [52.204-24](/part-52/52.204-24) , the offeror  must

complete the disclosure at paragraph (e)(2) of the provision at [52.204-24](/part-52/52.204-24) , and the contracting officer

shall  follow agency procedures.

(b) Reporting . If a contractor provides a report pursuant to paragraph (d) of the clause at [52.204-25](/part-52/52.204-25) ,

Prohibition on Contracting  for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or

Equipment, follow agency procedures.

4.2104  Waivers.

(a) Executive agencies . The head of an executive agency  may, on a one-time basis, waive the

prohibition at 4.2102 (a) with respect to a Government entity ( e.g., requirements office, contracting

office ) that requests such a waiver.

(1) Waiver.  The waiver may be provided, for a period not to extend beyond August 13, 2021 for the

prohibition at 4.2102 (a)(1), or beyond August 13, 2022 for the prohibition at 4.2102(a)(2), if the

Government official, on behalf of the entity, seeking the waiver submits to the head of the executive

agency –

(i) A compelling justification for the additional time to implement the requirements under 4.2102 (a),

as determined by the head of the executive agency ; and

(ii) A full and complete laydown or description of the presences of covered telecommunications or

video surveillance equipment or services in the relevant supply chain and a phase-out plan to

eliminate such covered telecommunications or video surveillance equipment or services from the

relevant systems.

(2) Executive agency  waiver requirements for the prohibition at 4.2102(a)(2).  Before the head of an

executive agency  can grant a waiver to the prohibition at 4.2102 (a)(2), the agency must —

(i) Have designated a senior agency official for supply chain risk management, responsible for

ensuring the agency effectively carries out the supply chain risk management functions and

responsibilities described in law, regulation, and policy;

(ii) Establish participation in an information-sharing environment when and as required by the

Federal Acquisition  Security Council (FASC) to facilitate interagency sharing of relevant acquisition

supply chain risk information;

(iii) Notify and consult with the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) on the waiver

request using ODNI guidance, briefings, best practices, or direct inquiry, as appropriate; and

(iv) Notify the ODNI and the FASC 15 days prior to granting the waiver that it intends to grant the

waiver.

(3) Waivers for emergency  acquisitions .

(i) In the case of an emergency , including a declaration of major disaster , in which prior notice and

consultation with the ODNI and prior notice to the FASC is impracticable and would severely

jeopardize performance of mission-critical functions, the head of an agency may grant a waiver

without meeting the notice and consultation requirements under 4.2104 (a)(2)(iii) and

4.2104 (a)(2)(iv) to enable effective mission critical functions or emergency  response and recovery.

(ii) In the case of a waiver granted in response to an emergency , the head of an agency granting the

waiver must —

(A) Make a determination that the notice and consultation requirements are impracticable due to an

emergency  condition; and

(B) Within 30 days of award, notify the ODNI and the FASC of the waiver issued under emergency

conditions in addition to the waiver notice to Congress under 4.2104 (a)(4).

(4) Waiver notice.

(i) For waivers to the prohibition at 4.2102 (a)(1), the head of the executive agency  shall , not later

than 30 days after approval—

(A) Submit in accordance with agency procedures to the appropriate congressional committees the

full and complete laydown of the presences of covered telecommunications or video surveillance

equipment or services in the relevant supply chain; and

(B) The phase-out plan to eliminate such covered telecommunications or video surveillance

equipment or services from the relevant systems.

(ii) For waivers to the prohibition at 4.2102 (a)(2), the head of the executive agency  shall , not later

than 30 days after approval submit in accordance with agency procedures to the appropriate

congressional committees—

(A) An attestation by the agency that granting of the waiver would not, to the agency's knowledge

having conducted the necessary due diligence as directed by statute and regulation, present a

material increase in risk to U.S. national security;

(B) The full and complete laydown of the presences of covered telecommunications or video

surveillance equipment or services in the relevant supply chain, to include a description of each

category of covered technology equipment or services discovered after a reasonable inquiry , as well

as each category of equipment, system, or service used by the entity in which such covered

technology is found after conducting a reasonable inquiry ; and

(C) The phase-out plan to eliminate such covered telecommunications or video surveillance

equipment or services from the relevant systems.

(b) Director of National Intelligence . The Director of National Intelligence may provide a waiver if

the Director determines the waiver is in the national security interests of the United States .

4.2105  Solicitation provisions and contract clause.

(a) The contracting officer  shall  insert the provision at [52.204-24](/part-52/52.204-24) , Representation Regarding Certain

Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment–

(1) In all solicitations  for contracts; and

(2) Under indefinite delivery contracts, in all notices of intent to place an order, or solicitations  for

an order ( e.g., subpart [8.4](/part-8/8.4) and [16.505](/part-16/16.505) ).

(b) The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause at [52.204-25](/part-52/52.204-25) , Prohibition on Contracting  for

Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment, in all solicitations  and

contracts.

(c) The contracting officer  shall  insert the provision at [52.204-26](/part-52/52.204-26) , Covered Telecommunications

Equipment or Services -Representation, in all solicitations .

Subpart [4.22](/part-4/4.22)  Prohibition on a ByteDance Covered

Application.

4.2201  Definitions.

As used in this subpart—

Covered application  means the social networking service TikTok or any successor application or

service developed or provided by ByteDance Limited or an entity owned by ByteDance Limited.

Information technology , as defined in 40 U.S.C. 11101(6) —

(1)Means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, used in the

automatic acquisition , storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement, control,

display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the executive

agency , if the equipment is used by the executive agency  directly or is used by a contractor under a

contract with the executive agency  that requires the use—

(i)Of that equipment; or

(ii)Of that equipment to a significant extent in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a

product;

(2)Includes computers, ancillary equipment (including imaging peripherals, input, output, and

storage devices necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be

controlled by the central processing unit of a computer, software, firmware and similar procedures,

services (including support services), and related resources; but

(3)Does not include any equipment acquired by a Federal contractor incidental to a Federal

contract.

4.2202  Prohibition.

(a) Section 102 of Division R of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Pub. L. 117-328), the No

TikTok on Government Devices Act, and its implementing guidance under Office of Management and

Budget (OMB) Memorandum M-23-13, dated February 27, 2023, “No TikTok on Government

Devices” Implementation Guidance, collectively prohibit the presence or use of a covered application

on information technology , including certain equipment used by Federal contractors.

(b) This prohibition applies to the presence or use of a covered application  on any information

technology  owned or managed by the Government, or on any information technology  used or

provided by the contractor under a contract, including equipment provided by the contractor’s

employees, unless an exception is granted in accordance with OMB Memorandum M-23-13.

4.2203  Contract clause.

The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause at [52.204-27](/part-52/52.204-27) , Prohibition on a ByteDance Covered

Application , in all solicitations  and contracts, unless an exception is granted in accordance with

OMB Memorandum M-23-13.

Subpart [4.23](/part-4/4.23)  Federal Acquisition Security Council.

4.2300  Scope of subpart.

This subpart implements the Federal Acquisition  Supply Chain Security Act of 2018 (title II of Pub.

L. 115–390 ) and the Federal Acquisition Security Council (FASC ) regulation at 41 CFR part 201–1 .

The authority provided in this subpart expires on December 31, 2033 (see 41 U.S.C. 1328 ).

4.2301  Definitions.

As used in this subpart—

Covered article  as defined in 41 U.S.C. 4713(k) , means—

(1) Information technology , as defined in 40 U.S.C. 11101 , including cloud computing services of all

types;

(2) Telecommunications equipment or telecommunications service, as those terms are defined in

section 3 of the Communications Act of 1934 ( 47 U.S.C. 153 );

(3) The processing of information on a Federal or non-Federal information system, subject to the

requirements of the Controlled Unclassified Information program (see 32 CFR part 2002 ); or

(4) Hardware, systems, devices, software, or services that include embedded or incidental

information technology .

FASCSA order  means any of the following orders issued under the Federal Acquisition  Supply Chain

Security Act (FASCSA) requiring the removal of covered articles  from executive agency  information

systems or the exclusion of one or more named sources  or named covered articles  from executive

agency  procurement  actions, as described in 41 CFR 201–[1.303](/part-1/1.303)(d)  and (e):

(1) The Secretary of Homeland Security may issue FASCSA orders  applicable to civilian agencies, to

the extent not covered by paragraph (2) or (3) of this definition. This type of FASCSA order  may be

referred to as a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) FASCSA order .

(2) The Secretary of Defense may issue FASCSA orders  applicable to the Department of Defense

(DoD) and national security systems other than sensitive compartmented information systems . This

type of FASCSA order  may be referred to as a DoD FASCSA order .

(3) The Director of National Intelligence (DNI) may issue FASCSA orders  applicable to the

intelligence community and sensitive compartmented information systems , to the extent not covered

by paragraph (2) of this definition. This type of FASCSA order  may be referred to as a DNI FASCSA

order .

Federal Acquisition Security Council (FASC ) means the Council established pursuant to 41 U.S.C.

1322(a) .

Intelligence community,  as defined by 50 U.S.C. 3003(4) , means the following—

(1) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence;

(2) The Central Intelligence Agency;

(3) The National Security Agency;

(4) The Defense Intelligence Agency;

(5) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency;

(6) The National Reconnaissance Office;

(7) Other offices within the Department of Defense for the collection of specialized national

intelligence through reconnaissance programs;

(8) The intelligence elements of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, the Coast

Guard, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the

Department of Energy;

(9) The Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the Department of State;

(10) The Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of the Treasury;

(11) The Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security; or

(12) Such other elements of any department or agency as may be designated by the President, or

designated jointly by the Director of National Intelligence and the head of the department or agency

concerned, as an element of the intelligence community.

National security system,  as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3552 , means any information system (including any

telecommunications system) used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency, or other

organization on behalf of an agency—

(1) The function, operation, or use of which involves intelligence activities; involves cryptologic

activities related to national security; involves command and control of military forces; involves

equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system; or is critical to the direct

fulfillment of military or intelligence missions, but does not include a system that is to be used for

routine administrative and business applications (including payroll, finance, logistics, and personnel

management applications); or

(2) Is protected at all times by procedures established for information that have been specifically

authorized under criteria established by an Executive order or an Act of Congress to be kept

classified in the interest of national defense  or foreign policy.

Reasonable inquiry  means an inquiry designed to uncover any information in the entity's possession

about the identity of any covered articles , or any products  or services produced or provided by a

source . This applies when the covered article  or the source  is subject to an applicable FASCSA

order . A reasonable inquiry  excludes the need to include an internal or third-party audit.

Sensitive compartmented information  means classified information  concerning or derived from

intelligence sources , methods, or analytical processes, which is required to be handled within formal

access control systems established by the Director of National Intelligence.

Sensitive compartmented information system  means a national security system authorized to

process or store sensitive compartmented information .

Source  means a non-Federal supplier, or potential supplier, of products  or services, at any tier.

Supply chain risk,  as defined in 41 U.S.C. 4713(k) , means the risk that any person may sabotage,

maliciously introduce unwanted functionality, extract data, or otherwise manipulate the design,

integrity, manufacturing, production, distribution, installation, operation, maintenance, disposition,

or retirement of covered articles  so as to surveil, deny, disrupt, or otherwise manipulate the

function, use, or operation of the covered articles  or information stored or transmitted on the

covered articles .

Supply chain risk information  includes, but is not limited to, information that describes or identifies:

(1) Functionality and features of covered articles , including access to data and information system

privileges;

(2) The user environment where a covered article  is used or installed;

(3) The ability of a source  to produce and deliver covered articles  as expected;

(4) Foreign control of, or influence over, a source  or covered article  ( e.g., foreign ownership,

personal and professional ties between a source  and any foreign entity, legal regime of any foreign

country in which a source  is headquartered or conducts operations);

(5) Implications to government mission(s) or assets, national security, homeland security, or critical

functions associated with use of a covered source  or covered article ;

(6) Vulnerability of Federal systems, programs, or facilities;

(7) Market alternatives to the covered source ;

(8) Potential impact or harm caused by the possible loss, damage, or compromise of a product,

material, or service to an organization's operations or mission; and

(9) Likelihood of a potential impact or harm, or the exploitability of a system;

(10) Security, authenticity, and integrity of covered articles  and their supply and compilation chain;

(11) Capacity to mitigate risks identified;

(12) Factors that may reflect upon the reliability of other supply chain risk information ; and

(13) Any other considerations that would factor into an analysis of the security, integrity, resilience,

quality, trustworthiness, or authenticity of covered articles  or sources .

4.2302  Sharing supply chain risk information.

(a) Executive agencies  are required to share relevant supply chain risk information  with the FASC if

the executive agency  has determined there is a reasonable basis to conclude a substantial supply

chain risk associated with a source  or covered article  exists (see 41 CFR 201–[1.201](/part-1/1.201) ).

(b) In support of information sharing described in paragraph (a) of this section, the contracting

officer  shall  work with the program office or requiring activity in accordance with agency

procedures regarding the sharing of relevant information on actual or potential supply chain risk

determined to exist during the procurement  process.

4.2303  FASCSA orders.

(a) Executive agencies  are prohibited from procuring or obtaining, or extending or renewing a

contract to procure or obtain, any covered article , or any products  or services produced or provided

by a source , including contractor use of covered articles  or sources , if that prohibition is established

by an applicable FASCSA order  issued by the Director of National Intelligence, Secretary of Defense,

or Secretary of Homeland Security (the “issuing official”)(see 41 CFR 201–[1.304](/part-1/1.304)(a) ).

(b) If a covered article  or the source  is subject to an applicable Governmentwide FASCSA order

issued collectively by the Director of National Intelligence, Secretary of Defense, and Secretary of

Homeland Security, executive agencies  responsible for management of the Federal Supply

Schedules, Governmentwide acquisition  contracts, and multi-agency contracts shall  facilitate

implementation of a collective FASCSA order  by removing the covered articles  or sources  identified

in the FASCSA order  from such contracts (see 41 CFR 201–[1.303](/part-1/1.303)(g) ).

(c)

(1) FASCSA orders  regarding sources  or covered articles  will be found in the System for Award

Management (SAM ), by searching for the phrase “ FASCSA order ”. SAM may be updated as new

FASCSA orders  are issued.

(2) Some FASCSA orders  will not be identified in SAM and will need to be identified in the

solicitation  to be effective for that acquisition . The requiring activity or program office will identify

these FASCSA orders  to the contracting officer  (see 4.2304 (d)).

(3) The contracting officer  shall  work with the program office or requiring activity to identify which

FASCSA orders  apply to the acquisition .

4.2304  Procedures.

(a) Identifying applicable FASCSA orders . The applicability of FASCSA orders  to a particular

acquisition  depends on the contracting office 's agency, the scope of the FASCSA order , the funding,

and whether the requirement involves certain types of information systems (see the definition of

FASCSA order  at 4.2301 ). The contracting officer  shall  coordinate with the program office or

requiring activity to identify the FASCSA order (s) that apply to the acquisition  as follows:

(1) Unless the program office or requiring activity instructs the contracting officer  otherwise,

FASCSA orders  apply as follows: contracts awarded by civilian agencies will be subject to DHS

FASCSA orders , and contracts awarded by the Department of Defense will be subject to DoD

FASCSA orders . See paragraph (b) of [52.204-30](/part-52/52.204-30) , Federal Acquisition  Supply Chain Security Act

Orders-Prohibition.

(2) For acquisitions  where the program office or the requiring activity instructs the contracting

officer  to select specific FASCSA orders , the contracting officer  must  select “yes” or “no” for each

applicable type of FASCSA order  ( i.e., “DHS FASCSA Order ” “DoD FASCSA Order ” or “DNI

FASCSA Order ”). See paragraph (b)(1) of [52.204-30](/part-52/52.204-30) , Federal Acquisition  Supply Chain Security Act

Orders—Prohibition, with its Alternate  I.

(b) Federal Supply Schedules, Governmentwide acquisition  contracts, multi-agency contracts

specific procedures—

(1) Applying FASCSA orders . An agency awarding this type of contract may choose to apply FASCSA

orders  in accordance with agency policy as follows:

(i) Application at the contract level.  The agency awarding the basic contract may choose to apply

FASCSA orders  to the basic contract award. This is the preferred method, especially if small value

orders or orders without a request for quotation (RFQ) are expected. Ordering activity contracting

officers  may use this contract vehicle without taking further steps to identify applicable FASCSA

orders  in the order. The contracting officer  awarding the basic contract would select “yes” for all

FASCSA orders  ( i.e., “DHS FASCSA Order ” “DoD FASCSA Order ” and “DNI FASCSA Order ”) (see

paragraph (b)(1) of [52.204-30](/part-52/52.204-30) , Federal Acquisition  Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition,

with its Alternate  I). If the contracting officer  becomes aware of a newly issued applicable FASCSA

order , then the agency awarding the basic contract shall  modify the basic contract to remove any

covered article , or any products  or services produced or provided by a source , prohibited by the

newly issued FASCSA order .

(ii) Application at the order level.  The agency awarding the basic contract may choose to apply

FASCSA orders  at the order level, as implemented by the ordering activity contracting officer .

(2) Collective FASCSA orders . If a new FASCSA order  is issued collectively by the Secretary of

Homeland Security, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence, then the contracting

officer  shall  modify the basic contract based upon the requirements of the order, removing any

covered article , or any products  or services produced or provided by a source  (see 4.2303 (b)).

(3) Interagency acquisitions . For an interagency acquisition  (see subpart [17.5](/part-17/17.5)) where the funding

agency differs from the awarding agency, the funding agency shall  determine the applicable

FASCSA orders .

(4) Inconsistencies.  If any inconsistency is identified between the basic contract and the order, then

the FASCSA orders  identified in the order will take precedence.

(c) Updating the solicitation  or contract for new FASCSA orders . The contracting officer  shall  update

a solicitation  or contract if the program office or requiring activity determines it is necessary to:

(1) Amend the solicitation  to incorporate FASCSA orders  in effect after the date the solicitation  was

issued but prior to contract award; or

(2) Modify the contract to incorporate FASCSA orders  issued after the date of contract award.

(i) Any such modification should  take place within a reasonable amount of time, but no later than 6

months from the determination of the program office or requiring activity.

(ii) If the contract is not modified within the time specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, then

the contract file shall  be documented providing rationale why the contract could not be modified

within this timeframe.

(d) Agency specific procedures.  The contracting officer  shall  follow agency procedures for

implementing FASCSA orders  not identified in SAM (see 4.2303 (c)(2)).

(e) Disclosures.  If an offeror  provides a disclosure pursuant to paragraph (e) of [52.204-29](/part-52/52.204-29) , Federal

Acquisition  Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Representation and Disclosures, the contracting

officer  shall  engage with the program office or requiring activity to determine whether to pursue a

waiver, if available, in accordance with 4.2305  and agency procedures or not award to that offeror .

For FASCSA orders  handled at the order level, the disclosures language is found at paragraph (b)(5)

of [52.204-30](/part-52/52.204-30) , Federal Acquisition  Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition, with its Alternate

II.

(f) Waiver.  An acquisition  may be either fully or partially covered by a waiver. Partial waiver

coverage occurs when only portions of the products  or services being procured or provided by a

source  are covered by an applicable waiver. If the requiring activity notifies the contracting officer

that the acquisition  is partially covered by an approved individual waiver or class waiver under

4.2305, then the contracting officer  shall  work with the program office or requiring activity to

identify in the solicitation , RFQ, or order, the covered articles  or services produced by or provided

by a source  that are subject to the waiver (see 41 CFR 201–[1.304](/part-1/1.304)(b) ).

(g) Reporting.  If a contractor provides a report pursuant to paragraph (c) of [52.204-30](/part-52/52.204-30) , Federal

Acquisition  Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Prohibition, the contracting officer  shall  engage with

the agency supply chain risk management program in accordance with agency procedures.

4.2305  Waivers.

(a) An executive agency  required to comply with a FASCSA order  may submit a request that the

order or some of its provisions not apply to—

(1) The agency;

(2) Specific actions of the agency or a specific class of acquisitions ;

(3) Actions of the agency for a period of time before compliance with the order is practicable; or

(4) Other activities, as appropriate, that the requesting agency  identifies.

(b) A request for waiver shall  be submitted by the executive agency  in writing  to the official that

issued the order, unless other instructions for submission are provided by the applicable FASCSA

order .

(c) The request for waiver shall  provide the following information for the issuing official to review

and evaluate the request, including—

(1) Identification of the applicable FASCSA order ;

(2) A description of the exception sought, including, if limited to only a portion of the order, a

description of the order provisions from which an exception is sought;

(3) The name or a description sufficient to identify the covered article  or the product or service

provided by a source  that is subject to the order from which an exception is sought;

(4) Compelling justification for why an exception should  be granted, such as the impact of the order

on the agency's ability to fulfill its mission-critical functions, or considerations related to the national

interest, including national security reviews, national security investigations, or national security

agreements;

(5) Any alternative mitigations to be undertaken to reduce the risks addressed by the FASCSA order ;

and

(6) Any other information requested by the issuing official.

(d) The contracting officer , in accordance with agency procedures and working with the program

office or requiring activity, shall  decide whether to pursue a waiver or to make award to an offeror

that does not require a waiver in accordance with the procedures at 4.2304 (f). If a waiver is being

pursued, then the contracting officer  may not make an award until written approval is obtained that

the waiver has been granted.

4.2306  Solicitation provision and contract clauses.

(a) In all Federal Supply Schedules, Governmentwide acquisition  contracts, and multi-agency

contracts where FASCSA orders  are applied at the order level, the contracting officer  shall  insert

the clause at [52.204-28](/part-52/52.204-28) , Federal Acquisition  Supply Chain Security Act Orders—Federal Supply

Schedules, Governmentwide Acquisition  Contracts, and Multi-Agency Contracts, in the basic

contract solicitation  and resultant contract (see 4.2304 (b)(1)(ii)).

(b) The contracting officer  shall  insert the provision at [52.204-29](/part-52/52.204-29) , Federal Acquisition  Supply Chain

Security Act Orders—Representation and Disclosures—

(1) In all solicitations , except for Federal Supply Schedules, Governmentwide acquisition  contracts,

and multi-agency contracts.

(2) In all solicitations  for Federal Supply Schedules, Governmentwide acquisition  contracts, and

multi-agency contracts, if FASCSA orders  are applied at the contract level (see 4.2304 (b)(1)(i)).

(c) The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause at [52.204-30](/part-52/52.204-30) , Federal Acquisition  Supply Chain

Security Act Orders—Prohibition—

(1) In solicitations  and contracts if the conditions specified at 4.2304 (a)(1) apply, except for Federal

Supply Schedules, Governmentwide acquisition  contracts, and multi-agency contracts. For

acquisitions  where conditions specified at 4.2304 (a)(2) apply, then the contracting officer  shall  use

the clause with its Alternate  I.

(2) In Federal Supply Schedules, Governmentwide acquisition  contracts, and multi-agency

contracts—

(i) Where FASCSA orders  are applied at the contract level, with its Alternate  I in all solicitations  and

resultant contracts. See 4.2304 (b)(1)(i).

(ii) Where FASCSA orders  are applied at the order level, with its Alternate  II in all RFQs, or in all

notices of intent to place an order. See 4.2304 (b)(1)(ii).
