---
id: 19.816
title: "19.816 Exiting the 8(a) program"
sidebar_label: "19.816"
---

# 19.816 Exiting the 8(a) program

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, when a contractor exits the 8(a) program, it is

no longer eligible to receive new 8(a) contracts. However, the contractor remains under contractual

obligation to complete existing contracts, and any priced options  that may be exercised.

(b) If an 8(a) contractor is suspended from the program (see 13 CFR 124.305 ), it may not receive any

new 8(a) contracts unless the head of the contracting  agency makes a determination that it is in the

best interest of the Government to issue the award and SBA adopts that determination.

(c) A contractor that has completed its term of participation in the 8(a) program may be awarded a

competitive 8(a) contract if it was an 8(a) participant eligible for award of the contract on the initial

date specified for receipt of offers  contained in the solicitation , and if the contractor continues to

meet all other applicable eligibility criteria (see 13 CFR 124.507(d) ).

(d) SBA's regulations on exiting the 8(a) program are found at 13 CFR 124.301  through 124.305, and

13 CFR 124.507(d) .

Subpart [19.9](/part-19/19.9)  - [Reserved]

Subpart [19.10](/part-19/19.10)  - [Reserved]

Subpart [19.11](/part-19/19.11)  - [Reserved]

Subpart [19.12](/part-19/19.12)  - [Reserved]

Subpart [19.13](/part-19/19.13)  - Historically Underutilized Business Zone

(HUBZone) Program

19.1301  General.

(a) The Historically Underutilized Business Zone ( HUBZone ) Act of 1997 ( 15 U.S.C.631  note) created

the HUBZone  Program.

(b) The purpose of the HUBZone  Program is to provide Federal contracting  assistance for qualified

small business concerns  located in historically underutilized business zones, in an effort to increase

employment opportunities, investment, and economic development in those areas.

19.1302  [Reserved].

19.1303  Status as a HUBZone small business concern.

(a) Status as a HUBZone  small business concern  is determined by the Small Business Administration

(SBA) in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126 .

(b) If SBA determines that a concern  is a HUBZone  small business, it will designate the concern  as a

HUBZone  small business in the Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS) at https://web.sba.gov/

pro-net/​search/​dsp_​dsbs.cfm . SBA's designation also appears in SAM. Only firms designated in DSBS

and SAM as HUBZone  small business concerns  are eligible for HUBZone  preferences. HUBZone

preferences are not contingent on the place of performance.

(c) A joint venture may be considered a HUBZone  small business concern  if—

(1)The joint venture qualifies as small under [19.301-1](/part-19/19.301-1) (a)(2)(i);

(2)At least one party to the joint venture is a HUBZone  small business concern ; and

(3)The joint venture complies with 13 CFR 126.616(a)  through (c).

(d) To be eligible for a HUBZone contract  under this section, a HUBZone  small business concern

must  be a HUBZone  small business concern  at the time of its initial offer .

19.1304  Exclusions.

This subpart does not apply to-

(a) Requirements that can be satisfied through award to-

(1) Federal Prison Industries , Inc. (see subpart  [8.6](/part-8/8.6) ); or

(2) AbilityOne participating non-profit agencies for the blind or severely disabled (see subpart  [8.7](/part-8/8.7) );

(b) Orders under indefinite-delivery contracts (see subpart [16.5](/part-16/16.5)). (But see [16.505](/part-16/16.505) (b)(2)(i)(F) for

discretionary set-asides of orders);

(c) Orders against Federal Supply Schedules (see subpart [8.4](/part-8/8.4)). (But see [8.405-5](/part-8/8.405-5)  for discretionary

set-asides of orders);

(d) Requirements currently being performed by an 8(a) participant or requirements SBA has

accepted for performance under the authority of the 8(a) program, unless SBA has consented to

release the requirements from the 8(a) program; or

(e) Requirements for commissary or exchange resale items.

19.1305  HUBZone set-aside procedures.

(a) The contracting officer -

(1) Shall  comply with [19.203](/part-19/19.203)  before deciding to set aside an acquisition  under the HUBZone

Program;

(2) May set aside acquisitions  exceeding the micro-purchase threshold  for competition restricted to

HUBZone  small business concerns  when the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section can be

satisfied; and

(3) Shall  consider HUBZone  set-asides before considering HUBZone  sole-source awards (see

19.1306 ) or small business set-asides (see subpart [19.5](/part-19/19.5)).

(b) To set aside an acquisition  for competition restricted to HUBZone  small business concerns , the

contracting officer  must  have a reasonable expectation that-

(1) Offers  will be received from two or more HUBZone  small business concerns ; and

(2) Award will be made at a fair market price .

(c) If the contracting officer  receives only one acceptable offer  from a HUBZone  small business

concern  in response to a set aside, the contracting officer  should  make an award to that concern . If

the contracting officer  receives no acceptable offers  from HUBZone  small business concerns , the

HUBZone  set-aside shall  be withdrawn and the requirement, if still valid, set aside for small business

concerns , as appropriate (see [19.203](/part-19/19.203) ).

(d) The procedures at [19.202-1](/part-19/19.202-1)  and, at [19.402](/part-19/19.402)  apply to this section.

(1) When the SBA intends to appeal a contracting officer ’s decision to reject a recommendation of

the SBA procurement  center representative (or, if a procurement  center representative is not

assigned, see [19.402](/part-19/19.402) (a)) to set aside an acquisition  for competition restricted to HUBZone  small

business concerns , the SBA procurement  center representative shall  notify the contracting officer , in

writing , of its intent within 5 business days of receiving the contracting officer ’s notice of rejection.

(2) Upon receipt of notice of SBA’s intent to appeal, the contracting officer  shall  suspend action on

the acquisition  until the head of the contracting activity  issues a written decision on the appeal,

unless the head of the contracting activity  makes a written determination that urgent and

compelling circumstances, which significantly affect the interests of the Government, exist.

(3) Within 15 business days of SBA’s notification to the contracting officer , SBA must  file its formal

appeal with the head of the agency , or the appeal will be deemed withdrawn. The head of the agency

shall  reply to SBA within 15 business days of receiving the appeal. The decision of the head of the

agency  shall  be final.

19.1306  HUBZone sole-source awards.

(a) A contracting officer  shall  consider a contract award to a HUBZone  small business concern  on a

sole-source basis (see [6.302-5](/part-6/6.302-5) (b)(5)) before considering a small business set-aside (see [19.203](/part-19/19.203)  and

subpart [19.5](/part-19/19.5)), provided none of the exclusions at 19.1304  apply; and-

(1) The contracting officer  does not have a reasonable expectation that offers  would be received

from two or more HUBZone  small business concerns ;

(2) The anticipated price of the contract, including options , will not exceed-

(i) $[8.5](/part-8/8.5) million  for a requirement within the North American Industry  Classification System (NAICS)

codes for manufacturing; or

(ii) $[5.5](/part-5/5.5) million  for a requirement within all other NAICS codes;

(3) The requirement is not currently being performed by an 8(a) participant under the provisions of

subpart  [19.8](/part-19/19.8)  or has been accepted as a requirement by SBA under subpart  [19.8](/part-19/19.8) ;

(4) The HUBZone  small business concern  has been determined to be a responsible contractor with

respect to performance; and

(5) Award can be made at a fair and reasonable price.

(b) The SBA has the right to appeal the contracting officer ’s decision not to make a HUBZone  sole-

source award (see 13 CFR 126.610 ).

19.1307  Price evaluation preference for HUBZone small business concerns.

(a) The price evaluation preference for HUBZone  small business concerns  shall  be used in

acquisitions  conducted using full and open competition . The preference shall  not be used-

(1) Where price is not a selection factor so that a price evaluation preference would not be

considered ( e.g., Architect/Engineer acquisitions );

(2) Where all fair and reasonable offers  are accepted ( e.g., the award of multiple award schedule

contracts); or

(3) For the reserved portion of a solicitation  for a multiple-award contract  (see [19.503](/part-19/19.503) ).

(b) The contracting officer  shall  give offers  from HUBZone  small business concerns  a price

evaluation preference by adding a factor of 10 percent to all offers , except-

(1) Offers  from HUBZone  small business concerns  that have not waived the evaluation preference;

or

(2) Otherwise successful offers  from small business concerns .

(c) The factor of 10 percent shall  be applied on a line item  basis or to any group of items on which

award may be made. Other evaluation factors, such as transportation costs or rent-free use of

Government property, shall  be added to the offer  to establish the base offer  before adding the factor

of 10 percent.

(d) When the two highest rated offerors  are a HUBZone  small business concern  and a large

business, and the evaluated offer  of the HUBZone  small business concern  is equal to the evaluated

offer  of the large business after considering the price evaluation preference, the contracting officer

shall  award the contract to the HUBZone  small business concern .

19.1308  [Reserved].

19.1309  Contract clauses.

(a)The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause [52.219-3](/part-52/52.219-3) , Notice of HUBZone  Set-Aside or Sole-

Source Award, in solicitations  and contracts for acquisitions  that are set aside or awarded on a sole-

source basis to, HUBZone  small business concerns  under 19.1305  or 19.1306 . This includes

multiple-award contracts  when orders may be set aside for HUBZone  small business concerns  as

described in [8.405-5](/part-8/8.405-5)  and [16.505](/part-16/16.505) (b)(2)(i)(F) or when orders may be issued directly to one HUBZone

small business concern  in accordance with [19.504](/part-19/19.504) (c)(1)(ii).

(b)The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause at [52.219-4](/part-52/52.219-4) , Notice of Price Evaluation Preference

for HUBZone  Small Business Concerns , in solicitations  and contracts for acquisitions  conducted

using full and open competition .

(c)For use of clause [52.219-14](/part-52/52.219-14) , Limitations on Subcontracting, see the prescription at [19.507](/part-19/19.507) (e).

(d) For use of clause [52.219-33](/part-52/52.219-33) , Nonmanufacturer Rule, see the prescription at [19.507](/part-19/19.507) (h).

Subpart [19.14](/part-19/19.14)  - Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small

Business Program

19.1401  General.

(a) The Veterans Benefit Act of2003 ( 15 U.S.C. 657f ) created the procurement  program for small

business concerns  owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans (commonly referred to as the

"Service-Disabled Veteran-owned Small Business (SDVOSB) Program ").

(b) The purpose of the SDVOSB Program is to provide Federal contracting  assistance to service-

disabled veteran-owned small business concerns .

19.1402  Applicability.

The procedures in this subpart apply to all Federal agencies  that employ one or more contracting

officers .

19.1403  Status.

(a) Status as an SDVOSB concern  is determined by SBA in accordance with 13 CFR part 128; also

see [19.307](/part-19/19.307) .

(b) For an SDVOSB concern  that seeks an SDVOSB set-aside or sole-source contract, the contracting

officer  shall  verify that the offeror —

(1) Effective January 1, 2024, is designated in the System for Award Management (SAM ) as an

SDVOSB concern  certified by SBA; or

(2) Has represented that it is an SDVOSB concern  in SAM and submitted an application for

certification to SBA on or before December 31, 2023. Pending applications for certification are in the

SBA Veteran Small Business Certification Program database at https://veterans.certify.sba.gov .

(c) If there is a decision issued by SBA as a result of a current eligibility examination finding that the

concern  did not qualify as an SDVOSB concern  eligible under the SDVOSB Program or SBA denies a

concern ’s application for SDVOSB certification, the concern  must  update its SDVOSB status in SAM

within 2 days of SBA’s final decision to reflect that the concern  is not an eligible SDVOSB. SBA will

update the concern ’s SDVOSB status in SAM within 2 days of the concern ’s failure to make the

update.

(d) Effective January 1, 2024, a joint venture may be considered an SDVOSB concern  eligible under

the SDVOSB Program if—

(1) The joint venture qualifies as small under [19.301-1](/part-19/19.301-1) (a)(2)(i);

(2) The managing SDVOSB joint venture partner—

(i) Is designated in SAM as an SDVOSB concern  certified by SBA; or

(ii) Has represented that it is an SDVOSB concern  in SAM and submitted an application for

certification to SBA on or before December 31, 2023. Pending applications for certification are in the

SBA Veteran Small Business Certification database at https://veterans.certify.sba.gov ; and

(3) The joint venture complies with the requirements of 13 CFR 128.402.

19.1404  Exclusions.

This subpart does not apply to-

(a) Requirements that can be satisfied through award to-

(1) Federal Prison Industries , Inc. (see subpart  [8.6](/part-8/8.6) );

(2) AbilityOne participating non-profit agencies for the blind or severely disabled (see subpart  [8.7](/part-8/8.7) );

(b) Orders under indefinite-delivery contracts (see subpart [16.5](/part-16/16.5)). (But see [16.505](/part-16/16.505) (b)(2)(i)(F) for

discretionary set-asides of orders);

(c) Orders against Federal Supply Schedules (see subpart [8.4](/part-8/8.4)). (But see [8.405-5](/part-8/8.405-5)  for discretionary

set-asides of orders); or

(d) Requirements currently being performed by an 8(a) participant or requirements SBA has

accepted for performance under the authority of the 8(a) program, unless SBA has consented to

release the requirements from the 8(a) program.

19.1405  Set-aside procedures.

(a) The contracting officer -

(1) Shall  comply with [19.203](/part-19/19.203)  before deciding to set aside an acquisition  under the SDVOSB Program;

(2) May set-aside acquisitions  exceeding the micro-purchase threshold  for competition restricted to

SDVOSB concerns  when the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section can be satisfied; and

(3) Shall  consider SDVOSB set-asides before considering SDVOSB sole source awards (see 19.1406 )

or small business set-asides (see subpart [19.5](/part-19/19.5)).

(b) A contracting officer  may restrict competition to SDVOSB concerns  eligible under the SDVOSB

Program if there is a reasonable expectation based on market research  that—

(1) Two or more SDVOSB concerns  eligible under the SDVOSB Program will submit offers ; and

(2) Award will be made at a fair market price .

(c) Effective January 1, 2024, the contracting officer  shall —

(1) Verify that offers  received are eligible for consideration for award by checking if the offeror —

(i) Is designated in SAM as an SDVOSB concern  certified by SBA; or

(ii) Has represented that it is an SDVOSB concern  in SAM and submitted an application for

certification to SBA on or before December 31, 2023. Pending applications for certification are in the

SBA Veteran Small Business Certification database at https://veterans.certify.sba.gov ;

(2) Proceed with the offer  evaluation, if the offeror  meets the criteria in paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of

this section; or

(3) Remove the offeror  from consideration, if the offeror  does not meet the criteria in paragraph

(c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as the offeror  is not eligible for award.

(d) If the contracting officer  receives only one acceptable offer  from an SDVOSB concern  eligible

under the SDVOSB Program in response to a set-aside, the contracting officer  should  make an award

to that concern . If the contracting officer  receives no acceptable offers  from SDVOSB concerns

eligible under the SDVOSB Program, the SDVOSB set-aside shall  be withdrawn and the requirement,

if still valid, set aside for small business concerns , as appropriate (see [19.203](/part-19/19.203) ).

(e) The procedures at [19.202-1](/part-19/19.202-1)  and, except for acquisitions  not exceeding the simplified acquisition

threshold , at [19.402](/part-19/19.402)  apply to this section. When the SBA intends to appeal a contracting officer ’s

decision to reject a recommendation of the SBA procurement  center representative (or, if a

procurement  center representative is not assigned, see [19.402](/part-19/19.402) (a)) to set aside an acquisition  for

competition restricted to SDVOSB concerns , the SBA procurement  center representative shall  notify

the contracting officer , in writing , of its intent within 5 working days of receiving the contracting

officer ’s notice of rejection. Upon receipt of notice of SBA’s intent to appeal, the contracting officer

shall  suspend action on the acquisition  unless the head of the contracting activity  makes a written

determination that urgent and compelling circumstances, which significantly affect the interests of

the Government, exist. Within 15 working days of SBA’s notification to the contracting officer , SBA

shall  file its formal appeal with the head of the contracting activity , or that agency may consider the

appeal withdrawn. The head of the contracting activity  shall  reply to SBA within 15 working days of

receiving the appeal. The decision of the head of the contracting activity  shall  be final.

19.1406  Sole source awards.

(a) A contracting officer  shall  consider a contract award to a SDVOSB concern  on a sole source basis

(see [6.302-5](/part-6/6.302-5) (b)(6)), before considering small business set-asides (see [19.203](/part-19/19.203)  and subpart [19.5](/part-19/19.5))

provided none of the exclusions of 19.1404  apply and—

(1) The contracting officer  does not have a reasonable expectation that offers  would be received

from two or more service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns ;

(2) The anticipated award price of the contract, including options , will not exceed-

(i) $[8.5](/part-8/8.5) million  for a requirement within the NAICS codes for manufacturing; or

(ii) $5 million  for a requirement within any other NAICS code;

(3) The requirement is not currently being performed by an 8(a) participant under the provisions of

subpart  [19.8](/part-19/19.8)  or has been accepted as a requirement by SBA under subpart  [19.8](/part-19/19.8) ;

(4) The service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern  has been determined to be a

responsible contractor with respect to performance; and

(5) Award can be made at a fair and reasonable price.

(b) Effective January 1, 2024, a contracting officer  shall  only award a sole-source contract to a

concern  that—

(1) Is designated in SAM as an SDVOSB concern  certified by SBA; or

(2) Has represented that it is an SDVOSB concern  in SAM and submitted an application for

certification to SBA on or before December 31, 2023. Pending applications for certification are in the

SBA Veteran Small Business Certification Program database at https://veterans.certify.sba.gov .

(c) The SBA has the right to appeal the contracting officer ’s decision not to make an SDVOSB sole-

source award.

19.1407  [Reserved]

19.1408  Contract clauses.

(a) The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause at [52.219-27](/part-52/52.219-27) , Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-

Source Award to, Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) Concerns  Eligible

Under the SDVOSB Program, in solicitations  and contracts for acquisitions  that are set aside or

awarded on a sole-source basis to, service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns  under

19.1405  and 19.1406 . This includes multiple-award contracts  when orders may be set aside for

service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns  as described in [8.405-5](/part-8/8.405-5)  and

[16.505](/part-16/16.505) (b)(2)(i)(F) or when orders may be issued directly to one service-disabled veteran-owned

small business contractor in accordance with [19.504](/part-19/19.504) (c)(1)(ii).

(b)For use of clause [52.219-14](/part-52/52.219-14) , Limitations on Subcontracting, see the prescription at [19.507](/part-19/19.507) (e).

(c)For use of clause [52.219-33](/part-52/52.219-33) , Nonmanufacturer Rule, see the prescription at [19.507](/part-19/19.507) (h).

Subpart [19.15](/part-19/19.15)  - Women-Owned Small Business Program.

19.1500  General.

(a) Section 8(m) of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 637(m) ) created the Women-Owned Small

Business (WOSB) Program.

(b) The purpose of the WOSB Program is to ensure women-owned small business concerns  have an

equal opportunity to participate in Federal contracting  and to assist agencies in achieving their

women-owned small business participation goals (see 13 part CFR 127).

(c) An economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern  and a WOSB

concern  eligible under the WOSB Program are subcategories of “ women-owned small business

concern ” as defined in section [2.101](/part-2/2.101) .

19.1501  [Reserved]

19.1502  Applicability.

The procedures in this subpart apply to all Federal agencies  that employ one or more contracting

officers .

19.1503  Status.

(a) Status as an EDWOSB concern  or WOSB concern  eligible under the WOSB Program is

determined by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR part 127 .

(b) For a WOSB that seeks a WOSB or EDWOSB set-aside or sole-source contract, the contracting

officer  shall  verify that the offeror —

(1) Is registered in the System for Award Management (SAM ); and

(2) Is designated as a certified EDWOSB or WOSB concern  in SAM (see 19.1505(d) for set aside

procedures). Pending applications for certification are only in the Dynamic Small Business Search

(DSBS) at https://web.sba.gov/​pro-net/​search/​dsp_​dsbs.cfm .

(c) If there is a decision issued by SBA as a result of a current eligibility examination finding that the

concern  did not qualify as an EDWOSB concern  or WOSB concern  eligible under the WOSB

Program, the contracting officer  may terminate the contract, and shall  not exercise any option , or

award further task or delivery orders . Agencies shall  not count or include the award toward the

small business goals for an EDWOSB concern  or WOSB concern  eligible under the WOSB Program

and must  update FPDS from the date of award to reflect the final SBA decision.

(d) A joint venture may be considered an EDWOSB concern  or WOSB concern  eligible under the

WOSB Program if the EDWOSB or WOSB participant is certified in SAM (see section 19.1505(d) for

set-aside procedures) and the joint venture meets the requirements of 13 CFR 127.506 .

19.1504  Exclusions.

This subpart does not apply to-

(a) Requirements that an 8(a) contractor is currently performing under the 8(a) program or that SBA

has accepted for performance under the authority of the 8(a) program, unless SBA has consented to

release the requirements from the 8(a) program;

(b) Requirements that can be satisfied through award to mandatory Government sources (see

section [8.002](/part-8/8.002) );

(c) Orders under indefinite-delivery contracts (see subpart [16.5](/part-16/16.5)). (But see [16.505](/part-16/16.505) (b)(2)(i)(F) for

discretionary set-asides of orders); or

(d) Orders against Federal Supply Schedules (see subpart [8.4](/part-8/8.4)). (But see [8.405-5](/part-8/8.405-5)  for discretionary

set-asides of orders.)

19.1505  Set-aside procedures.

(a) The contracting officer -

(1) Shall  comply with [19.203](/part-19/19.203)  before deciding to set aside an acquisition  under the WOSB Program;

(2)

(i) May set aside acquisitions  exceeding the micro-purchase threshold  for competition restricted to

EDWOSB concerns  when the acquisition  is assigned a NAICS code in which SBA has determined

that WOSB concerns  are underrepresented in Federal procurement ; or

(ii) Is assigned a NAICS code in which SBA has determined that WOSB concerns  are substantially

underrepresented in Federal procurement , as specified on SBA’s Web site at

http://www.sba.gov/WOSB .

(b) For requirements in NAICS codes designated by SBA as underrepresented, a contracting officer

may restrict competition to EDWOSB concerns  if the contracting officer  has a reasonable

expectation based on market research  that-

(1) Two or more EDWOSB concerns  will submit offers  for the contract and;

(2) Contract award will be made at a fair and reasonable price.

(c) A contracting officer  may restrict competition to WOSB concerns  eligible under the WOSB

Program (including EDWOSB concerns ), for requirements in NAICS codes designated by SBA as

substantially underrepresented if there is a reasonable expectation based on market research  that-

(1) Two or more WOSB concerns  eligible under the WOSB Program (including EDWOSB concerns ),

will submit offers  and;

(2) Contract award may be made at a fair and reasonable price.

(d) An EDWOSB or WOSB concern  may submit an offer  under an EDWOSB or WOSB set-aside when

the offeror —

(1) Qualifies as a small business concern  under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code

assigned to the contract; and

(2)

(i) For an EDWOSB set-aside, is certified pursuant to 13 CFR 127.300  as an EDWOSB or has a

pending application for EDWOSB certification in the DSBS (see 13 CFR 127.504(a) ); or

(ii) For a WOSB set-aside, is certified pursuant to 13 CFR 127.300  as an EDWOSB or WOSB, or has a

pending application for EDWOSB or WOSB certification in the DSBS (see 13 CFR 127.504(a) ).

(e) The contracting officer  shall  verify that offers  received are eligible for consideration for award by

checking SAM to see if the EDWOSB or WOSB concern  is designated as a certified concern  or

checking DSBS for a pending application for certification.

(1) If the offeror  is designated as certified in SAM or has a pending application for certification in

DSBS, proceed with the offer  evaluation.

(2) Unless the offeror  is designated as certified in SAM or has a pending application for certification

in DSBS, the offer  is not eligible for award and shall  be removed from consideration.

(f) Prior to award, the contracting officer  shall  verify the apparently successful offeror  is certified in

SAM, or has a pending application for certification in DSBS. If the apparently successful offeror 's

EDWOSB or WOSB certification is pending in DSBS, the contracting officer  shall  notify SBA's

Director/Government Contracting  by email at WOSBpendingcertification@sba.gov , and request

SBA's status determination. The contracting officer  shall  provide SBA with the offeror 's name,

unique entity identifier , type of set-aside, NAICS code, and solicitation  number.

(1) Within 15 calendar days from the date of the contracting officer 's notification, SBA will make a

determination regarding the offeror 's status as an EDWOSB or WOSB eligible under the WOSB

program.

(2) If the contracting officer  does not receive a determination from SBA within 15 calendar days, the

contracting officer  at their discretion, may provide SBA additional time to make a determination, or

may proceed with award to the next highest evaluated offeror .

(3) The contracting officer  shall  not make award to an offeror  who is not a certified EDWOSB or

WOSB concern  eligible under the WOSB program.

(g) The contracting officer  may make an award, if only one acceptable offer  is received from a

qualified EDWOSB concern  or WOSB concern  eligible under the WOSB Program.

(h) If no acceptable offers  are received from an EDWOSB concern  or WOSB concern  eligible under

the WOSB Program, the set-aside shall  be withdrawn and the requirement, if still valid, must  be

considered for set aside in accordance with [19.203](/part-19/19.203)  and subpart [19.5](/part-19/19.5).

(i) The SBA procurement  center representative (PCR) may recommend use of the WOSB Program. If

the contracting officer  rejects a recommendation by SBA's PCR—

(1) The contracting officer  shall  notify the PCR as soon as practicable;

(2) SBA shall  notify the contracting officer  of its intent to appeal the contracting officer ’s decision no

later than five business days after receiving notice of the contracting officer ’s decision;

(3) The contracting officer  shall  suspend further action regarding the procurement  until the head of

the agency  issues a written decision on the appeal, unless the head of the agency  makes a written

determination that urgent and compelling circumstances which significantly affect the interests of

the United States  compel award of the contract;

(4) Within 15 business days of SBA’s notification to the head of the contracting activity , SBA shall

file a formal appeal to the head of the agency , or the appeal will be determined withdrawn; and

(5) The head of the agency , or designee, shall  specify in writing  the reasons for a denial of an appeal

brought under this section.

19.1506  Women-Owned Small Business Program sole-source awards.

(a) A contracting officer  shall  consider a contract award to an EDWOSB concern  on a sole-source

basis (see [6.302-5](/part-6/6.302-5) (b)(7)) before considering small business set-asides (see [19.203](/part-19/19.203)  and subpart  [19.5](/part-19/19.5) )

provided none of the exclusions at 19.1504  apply and-

(1) The acquisition  is assigned a NAICS code in which SBA has determined that WOSB concerns  are

underrepresented in Federal procurement ;

(2) The contracting officer  does not have a reasonable expectation that offers  would be received

from two or more EDWOSB concerns ; and

(3) The conditions in paragraph (c) of this section exist.

(b) A contracting officer  shall  consider a contract award to a WOSB concern  (including EDWOSB

concerns ) eligible under the WOSB Program on a sole-source basis (see [6.302-5](/part-6/6.302-5) (b)(7)) before

considering small business set-asides (see [19.203](/part-19/19.203)  and subpart  [19.5](/part-19/19.5) ) provided none of the exclusions

at 19.1504  apply and-

(1) The acquisition  is assigned a NAICS code in which SBA has determined that WOSB concerns  are

substantially underrepresented in Federal procurement ;

(2) The contracting officer  does not have a reasonable expectation that offers  would be received

from two or more WOSB concerns  (including EDWOSB concerns ); and

(3) The conditions in paragraph (c) of this section exist.

(c)

(1) The anticipated award price of the contract, including options , will not exceed-

(i) $[8.5](/part-8/8.5) million  for a requirement within the NAICS codes for manufacturing; or

(ii) $[5.5](/part-5/5.5) million  for a requirement within any other NAICS codes.

(2) The EDWOSB concern  or WOSB concern  has been determined to be a responsible contractor

with respect to performance.

(3) The award can be made at a fair and reasonable price.

(d) A contracting officer  shall  only award a sole-source contract to a concern  that has been certified

pursuant to 13 CFR 127.300  as an EDWOSB or WOSB eligible under the WOSB program.

Contracting officers  shall  not request a status determination from SBA on pending applications for

certification for EDWOSB or WOSB sole-source awards.

(e) The SBA has the right to appeal the contracting officer ’s decision not to make a sole-source

award to either an EDWOSB concern  or WOSB concern  eligible under the WOSB program.

19.1507  [Reserved]

19.1508  Contract clauses.

(a)The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause at [52.219-29](/part-52/52.219-29) , Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-

Source Award to, Economically Disadvantaged Women-owned Small Business Concerns , in

solicitations  and contracts for acquisitions  that are set aside or awarded on a sole-source basis to,

EDWOSB concerns  under 19.1505 (b) or 19.1506 (a). This includes multiple-award contracts  when

orders may be set aside for EDWOSB concerns  as described in [8.405-5](/part-8/8.405-5)  and [16.505](/part-16/16.505) (b)(2)(i)(F) or

when orders may be issued directly to one EDWOSB contractor in accordance with [19.504](/part-19/19.504) (c)(1)(ii).

(b)The contracting officer  shall  insert the clause at [52.219-30](/part-52/52.219-30) , Notice of Set-Aside for, or Sole-

Source Award to, Women-Owned Small Business Concerns  Eligible Under the Women-Owned Small

Business Program, in solicitations  and contracts for acquisitions  that are set aside or awarded on a

sole-source basis to WOSB concerns  under 19.1505 (c) or 19.1506 (b). This includes multiple-award

contracts  when orders may be set aside for WOSB concerns  eligible under the WOSB Program as

described in [8.405-5](/part-8/8.405-5)  and [16.505](/part-16/16.505) (b)(2)(i)(F) or when orders may be issued directly to one WOSB

contractor in accordance with [19.504](/part-19/19.504) (c)(1)(ii).

(c)For use of clause [52.219-14](/part-52/52.219-14) , Limitations on Subcontracting, see the prescription at [19.507](/part-19/19.507) (e).

(d)For use of clause [52.219-33](/part-52/52.219-33) , Nonmanufacturer Rule, see the prescription at [19.507](/part-19/19.507) (h).
