---
id: 6.304
title: "6.304 Approval of the justification"
sidebar_label: "6.304"
---

# 6.304 Approval of the justification

(a) Except for paragraph (b) of this section, the justification for other than full and open competition

shall  be approved in writing —

(1) For a proposed contract not exceeding $900,000, the contracting officer 's certification required

by 6.303-2 (b)(12) will serve as approval unless a higher approving level is established in agency

procedures.

(2) For a proposed contract over $900,000 but not exceeding $20 million, by the advocate for

competition for the procuring activity  designated pursuant to 6.501  or an official described in

paragraph (a)(3) or (4) of this section. This authority is not delegable.

(3) For a proposed contract over $20 million, but not exceeding $90 million, or, for DoD, NASA, and

the Coast Guard, not exceeding $150 million, by the head of the procuring activity , or a designee

who—

(i) If a member of the armed forces, is a general or flag officer; or

(ii) If a civilian, is serving in a position in a grade above GS-15 under the General Schedule (or in a

comparable or higher position under another schedule).

(4) For a proposed contract over $90 million or, for DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard, over $150

million, by the senior procurement executive  of the agency designated pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 1702(c)

in accordance with agency procedures. This authority is not delegable except in the case of the

Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition  and Sustainment, acting as the senior procurement

executive  for the Department of Defense.

(b) Any justification for a contract awarded under the authority of 6.302-7 , regardless of dollar

amount, shall  be considered approved when the determination required by 6.302-7 (c)(1) is made.

(c) A class justification for other than full and open competition  shall  be approved in writing  in

accordance with agency procedures. The approval level shall  be determined by the estimated total

value of the class.

(d) The estimated dollar value of all options  shall  be included in determining the approval level of a

justification.
