---
id: 3.909-3
title: "3.909-3 Solicitation provision and contract clause"
sidebar_label: "3.909-3"
---

# 3.909-3 Solicitation provision and contract clause

When using funding subject to the prohibitions in 3.909-1 (a), the contracting officer  shall -

(a)

(1) Include the provision at 52.203-18 , Prohibition on Contracting  with Entities that Require Certain

Internal Confidentiality Agreements or Statements-Representation, in all solicitations , except as

provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and

(2) Do not insert the provision in solicitations  for a personal services contract  with an individual if

the services are to be performed entirely by the individual, rather than by an employee of the

contractor or a subcontractor .

(b)

(1) Include the clause at 52.203-19 , Prohibition on Requiring Certain Internal Confidentiality

Agreements or Statements, in all solicitations  and resultant contracts, other than personal services

contracts  with individuals.

(2) Modify existing contracts, other than personal services contracts  with individuals, to include the

clause before obligating FY 2015 or subsequent FY funds that are subject to the same prohibition on

internal confidentiality agreements or statements.

Subpart 3.10  - Contractor Code of Business Ethics and

Conduct

3.1000  Scope of subpart.

This subpart-

(a) Implements 41 U.S.C. 3509 , Notification of Violations of Federal Criminal Law or Overpayments;

and

(b) Prescribes policies and procedures for the establishment of contractor codes of business ethics

and conduct, and display of agency Office of Inspector General (OIG) fraud hotline posters.

3.1001  Definitions.

As used in this subpart-

Subcontract  means any contract entered into by a subcontractor  to furnish supplies  or services for

performance of a prime contract or a subcontract .

Subcontractor  means any supplier, distributor, vendor, or firm that furnished supplies  or services to

or for a prime contractor or another subcontractor .

United States  means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas .

3.1002  Policy.

(a) Government contractors must  conduct themselves with the highest degree of integrity and

honesty.

(b) Contractors should  have a written code of business ethics and conduct. To promote compliance

with such code of business ethics and conduct, contractors should  have an employee business ethics

and compliance training program and an internal control system that-

(1) Are suitable to the size of the company and extent of its involvement in Government contracting ;

(2) Facilitate timely discovery and disclosure of improper conduct in connection with Government

contracts; and

(3) Ensure corrective measures are promptly instituted and carried out.

3.1003  Requirements.

(a) Contractor requirements.

(1) Although the policy at 3.1002  applies as guidance to all Government contractors, the contractual

requirements set forth in the clauses at 52.203-13 , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct,

and 52.203-14 , Display of Hotline Poster(s), are mandatory if the contracts meet the conditions

specified in the clause prescriptions at 3.1004 .

(2) Whether or not the clause at 52.203-13  is applicable, a contractor may be suspended and/or

debarred for knowing failure by a principal to timely disclose to the Government, in connection with

the award, performance, or closeout of a Government contract performed by the contractor or a

subcontract  awarded thereunder, credible evidence of a violation of Federal criminal law involving

fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, or gratuity violations found in Title 18 of the United States  Code

or a violation of the civil False Claims  Act. Knowing failure to timely disclose credible evidence of

any of the above violations remains a cause for suspension  and/or debarment  until 3 years after final

payment on a contract (see 9.406-2 (b)(1)(vi) and 9.407-2 (a)(8)).

(3) The Payment clauses at FAR 52.212-4 (i)(5), 52.232-25 (d), 52.232-26 (c), and 52.232-27 (l) require

that, if the contractor becomes aware that the Government has overpaid on a contract financing or

invoice  payment, the contractor shall  remit the overpayment amount to the Government. A

contractor may be suspended and/or debarred for knowing failure by a principal to timely disclose

credible evidence of a significant overpayment, other than overpayments resulting from contract

financing payments as defined in 32.001  (see 9.406-2 (b)(1)(vi) and 9.407-2 (a)(8)).

(b) Notification of possible contractor violation . If the contracting officer  is notified of possible

contractor violation of Federal criminal law involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, or gratuity

violations found in Title 18 U.S.C.; or a violation of the civil False Claims  Act, the contracting officer

shall -

(1) Coordinate the matter with the agency Office of the Inspector General; or

(2) Take action in accordance with agency procedures.

(c) Fraud Hotline Poster.

(1) Agency OIGs are responsible for determining the need for, and content of, their respective

agency OIG fraud hotline poster(s).

(2) When requested by the Department of Homeland Security, agencies shall  ensure that contracts

funded with disaster assistance funds require display of any fraud hotline poster applicable to the

specific contract. As established by the agency OIG, such posters may be displayed in lieu of, or in

addition to, the agency’s standard poster.

3.1004  Contract clauses.

(a) Insert the clause at FAR 52.203-13 , Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, in

solicitations  and contracts if the value of the contract is expected to exceed $7.5 million  and the

performance period is 120 days or more.

(b)

(1) Unless the contract is for the acquisition  of a commercial product  or commercial service  or will

be performed entirely outside the United States , insert the clause at 52.203-14 , Display of Hotline

Poster(s), if–

(i) The contract exceeds $7.5 million  or a lesser amount established by the agency; and

(ii)

(A) The agency has a fraud hotline poster; or

(B) The contract is funded with disaster assistance funds.

(2) In paragraph (b)(3) of the clause, the contracting officer  shall –

(i) Identify the applicable posters; and

(ii) Insert the website link(s) or other contact information for obtaining the agency and/or

Department of Homeland Security poster.

(3) In paragraph (d) of the clause, if the agency has established policies and procedures for display

of the OIG fraud hotline poster at a lesser amount, the contracting officer  shall  replace " $7.5 million "

with the lesser amount that the agency has established.

Subpart 3.11  - Preventing Personal Conflicts of Interest for

Contractor Employees Performing Acquisition Functions

3.1100  Scope of subpart.

This subpart implements policy on personal conflicts of interest by employees of Government

contractors as required by 41 U.S.C. 2303 .

3.1101  Definitions.

As used in this subpart-

Acquisition function closely associated with inherently governmental functions  means supporting or

providing advice or recommendations with regard to the following activities of a Federal agency :

(1) Planning acquisitions .

(2) Determining what supplies  or services are to be acquired by the Government, including

developing statements of work.

(3) Developing or approving any contractual documents, to include documents defining

requirements, incentive plans, and evaluation criteria.

(4) Evaluating contract proposals.

(5) Awarding Government contracts.

(6) Administering contracts (including ordering changes or giving technical direction in contract

performance or contract quantities, evaluating contractor performance, and accepting or rejecting

contractor products  or services).

(7) Terminating contracts.

(8) Determining whether contract costs are reasonable, allocable, and allowable.

(a) Covered employee  means an individual who performs an acquisition function closely associated

with inherently governmental functions  and is-

(1) An employee of the contractor; or

(2) A subcontractor that is a self-employed individual treated as a covered employee  of the

contractor because there is no employer to whom such an individual could submit the required

disclosures.

Personal conflict of interest  means a situation in which a covered employee  has a financial interest,

personal activity, or relationship that could impair the employee’s ability to act impartially and in the

best interest of the Government when performing under the contract. (A de minimis  interest that

would not "impair the employee’s ability to act impartially and in the best interest of the

Government" is not covered under this definition.)

(1) Among the sources of personal conflicts of interest are-

(i) Financial interests of the covered employee , of close family members, or of other members of the

covered employee 's household;

(ii) Other employment or financial relationships (including seeking or negotiating for prospective

employment or business); and

(iii) Gifts, including travel.

(2) For example, financial interests referred to in paragraph (1) of this definition may arise from-

(i) Compensation, including wages, salaries, commissions, professional fees, or fees for business

referrals;

(ii) Consulting relationships (including commercial and professional consulting and service

arrangements, scientific and technical advisory board memberships, or serving as an expert witness

in litigation);

(iii) Services provided in exchange for honorariums or travel expense reimbursements;

(iv) Research funding or other forms of research support;

(v) Investment in the form of stock or bond ownership or partnership interest (excluding diversified

mutual fund investments);

(vi) Real estate investments;

(vii) Patents, copyrights, and other intellectual property interests; or

(viii) Business ownership and investment interests.

3.1102  Policy.

The Government’s policy is to require contractors to-

(a) Identify and prevent personal conflicts of interest of their covered employees ; and

(b) Prohibit covered employees  who have access to nonpublic information by reason of performance

on a Government contract from using such information for personal gain.

3.1103  Procedures.

(a) By use of the contract clause  at 52.203-16 , as prescribed at 3.1106 , the contracting officer  shall

require each contractor whose employees perform acquisition  functions closely associated with

inherently Government functions to-

(1) Have procedures in place to screen covered employees  for potential personal conflicts of interest

by-

(i) Obtaining and maintaining from each covered employee , when the employee is initially assigned

to the task under the contract, a disclosure of interests that might be affected by the task to which

the employee has been assigned, as follows:

(A) Financial interests of the covered employee , of close family members, or of other members of the

covered employee ’s household.

(B) Other employment or financial relationships of the covered employee  (including seeking or

negotiating for prospective employment or business).

(C) Gifts, including travel; and

(ii) Requiring each covered employee  to update the disclosure statement whenever the employee’s

personal or financial circumstances change in such a way that a new personal conflict of interest

might occur because of the task the covered employee  is performing.

(2) For each covered employee -

(i) Prevent personal conflicts of interest, including not assigning or allowing a covered employee  to

perform any task under the contract for which the Contractor has identified a personal conflict of

interest for the employee that the Contractor or employee cannot satisfactorily prevent or mitigate

in consultation with the contracting  agency;

(ii) Prohibit use of non-public information accessed through performance of a Government contract

for personal gain; and

(iii) Obtain a signed non-disclosure agreement to prohibit disclosure of non-public information

accessed through performance of a Government contract.

(3) Inform covered employees  of their obligation-

(i) To disclose and prevent personal conflicts of interest;

(ii) Not to use non-public information accessed through performance of a Government contract for

personal gain; and

(iii) To avoid even the appearance of personal conflicts of interest;

(4) Maintain effective oversight to verify compliance with personal conflict-of-interest safeguards;

(5) Take appropriate disciplinary action in the case of covered employees  who fail to comply with

policies established pursuant to this section; and

(6) Report to the contracting officer  any personal conflict-of-interest violation by a covered employee

as soon as identified. This report shall  include a description of the violation and the proposed actions

to be taken by the contractor in response to the violation, with follow-up reports of corrective

actions taken, as necessary.

(b) If a contractor reports a personal conflict-of-interest violation by a covered employee  to the

contracting officer  in accordance with paragraph (b)(6) of the clause at 52.203-16 , Preventing

Personal Conflicts of Interest, the contracting officer  shall -

(1) Review the actions taken by the contractor;

(2) Determine whether any action taken by the contractor has resolved the violation satisfactorily;

and

(3) If the contracting officer  determines that the contractor has not resolved the violation

satisfactorily, take any appropriate action in consultation with agency legal counsel.

3.1104  Mitigation or waiver.

(a) In exceptional circumstances, if the contractor cannot satisfactorily prevent a personal conflict of

interest as required by paragraph (b)(2)(i) of the clause at 52.203-16 , Preventing Personal Conflicts

of Interest, the contractor may submit a request, through the contracting officer , for the head of the

contracting activity  to-

(1) Agree to a plan to mitigate the personal conflict of interest; or

(2) Waive the requirement to prevent personal conflicts of interest.

(b) If the head of the contracting activity  determines in writing  that such action is in the best

interest of the Government, the head of the contracting activity  may impose conditions that provide

mitigation of a personal conflict of interest or grant a waiver.

(c) This authority shall  not be redelegated.

3.1105  Violations.

If the contracting officer  suspects violation by the contractor of a requirement of paragraph (b),

(c)(3), or (d) of the clause at 52.203-16 , Preventing Personal Conflicts of Interest, the contracting

officer  shall  contact the agency legal counsel for advice and/or recommendations on a course of

action.

3.1106  Contract clause.

(a) Insert the clause at 52.203-16 , Preventing Personal Conflicts of Interest, in solicitations  and

contracts that-

(1) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold ; and

(2) Include a requirement for services by contractor employee(s) that involve performance of

acquisition  functions closely associated with inherently governmental functions for, or on behalf of, a

Federal agency  or department.

(b) If only a portion of a contract is for the performance of acquisition  functions closely associated

with inherently governmental functions, then the contracting officer  shall  still insert the clause, but

shall  limit applicability of the clause to that portion of the contract that is for the performance of

such services.

(c) Do not insert the clause in solicitations  or contracts with a self-employed individual if the

acquisition  functions closely associated with inherently governmental functions are to be performed

entirely by the self-employed individual, rather than an employee of the contractor.
