---
id: 52.229-11
title: "52.229-11 , Tax on Certain Foreign Procurements —Notice and Representation, that it is fully exempt"
sidebar_label: "52.229-11"
---

# 52.229-11 , Tax on Certain Foreign Procurements —Notice and Representation, that it is fully exempt

from the withholding, and certified the full exemption on the IRS Form W-14, and if that full

exemption no longer applies due to a change in circumstances during the performance of the

contract that causes the Contractor to become subject to the withholding for the 2 percent excise

tax then the Contractor shall–

(i) Notify the Contracting Officer within 30 days of a change in circumstances that causes

the Contractor to be subject to the excise tax withholding under 26 U.S.C. 5000C ; and

(ii) Comply with paragraph (c)(1) of this clause.

(d) The Government will withhold a full 2 percent of each payment unless the Contractor claims

an exemption. If the Contractor enters a ratio in Line 12 of the IRS Form W-14, the result of Line 11

divided by Line 10, the Government will withhold from each payment an amount equal to 2 percent

multiplied by the contract ratio. If the Contractor marks box 9 of the IRS Form W-14 (rather than

completes Lines 10 through 12), the Contractor must identify and enter the specific exempt and

nonexempt amounts in Line 15 of the IRS Form W-14; the Government will then withhold 2 percent

only from the nonexempt amount. See the IRS Form W-14 and its instructions.

(e) Exemptions from the withholding under this clause are described at 26 CFR 1.5000C-1(d)(5)

through (7). Any exemption claimed and self-certified on the IRS Form W-14 is subject to audit by

the IRS. Any disputes regarding the imposition and collection of the 26 U.S.C. 5000C  tax are

adjudicated by the IRS as the 26 U.S.C. 5000C  tax is a tax matter, not a contract issue.

(f) Taxes imposed under 26 U.S.C. 5000C  may not be—

(1) Included in the contract price; nor

(2) Reimbursed.

(g) A taxpayer may, for a fee, seek advice from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as to the

proper tax treatment of a transaction. This is called a private letter ruling. Also, the IRS may publish

a revenue ruling, which is an official interpretation by the IRS of the Internal Revenue Code, related

statutes, tax treaties, and regulations. A revenue ruling is the conclusion of the IRS on how the law

is applied to a specific set of facts. For questions relating to the interpretation of the IRS regulations

go to https://www.irs.gov/help/tax-law-questions .

(End of clause)
