---
id: 52.222-33
title: "52.222-33 Notice of Requirement for Project Labor Agreement"
sidebar_label: "52.222-33"
---

# 52.222-33 Notice of Requirement for Project Labor Agreement

As prescribed in 22.505 (a)(1) , insert the following provision:

Notice of Requirement for Project Labor Agreement (May 2010)

(a) Definitions . "Labor organization" and "project labor agreement," as used in this provision, are

defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled Project Labor Agreement.

(b) Consistent with applicable law, the offeror shall negotiate a project labor agreement with one

or more labor organizations for the term of the resulting construction contract.

(c) Consistent with applicable law, the project labor agreement reached pursuant to this

provision shall-

(1) Bind the offeror and all subcontractors engaged in construction on the construction

project to comply with the project labor agreement;

(2) Allow the offeror and all subcontractors to compete for contracts and subcontracts

without regard to whether they are otherwise parties to collective bargaining agreements;

(3) Contain guarantees against strikes, lockouts, and similar job disruptions;

(4) Set forth effective, prompt, and mutually binding procedures for resolving labor disputes

arising during the term of the project labor agreement;

(5) Provide other mechanisms for labor-management cooperation on matters of mutual

interest and concern, including productivity, quality of work, safety, and health; and

(6) Fully conform to all statutes, regulations, Executive orders, and agency requirements.

(d) Any project labor agreement reached pursuant to this provision does not change the terms of

this contract or provide for any price adjustment by the Government.

(e) The offeror shall submit to the Contracting Officer a copy of the project labor agreement with

its offer.

(End of Provision)

Alternate I ( May 2010) . As prescribed in 22.505 (a)(1), substitute the following paragraphs (b) and (e)

for paragraphs (b) and (e) of the basic clause.

(b) The apparent successful offeror shall negotiate a project labor agreement with one or more labor

organizations for the term of the resulting construction contract.

(e) The apparent successful offeror shall submit to the Contracting Officer a copy of the project labor

agreement prior to contract award.

Alternate II ( May 2010) . As prescribed in 22.505 (a)(2), substitute the following paragraph (b) in lieu

of paragraphs (b) through (e) of the basic clause:

(b) Consistent with applicable law, if awarded the contract, the offeror shall negotiate a project labor

agreement with one or more labor organizations for the term of the resulting construction contract.
