---
id: 52.223-11
title: "52.223-11 Ozone-Depleting Substances and High Global Warming Potential"
sidebar_label: "52.223-11"
---

# 52.223-11 Ozone-Depleting Substances and High Global Warming Potential

Hydrofluorocarbons.

As prescribed in [23.804](/part-23/23.804) (a)(1) , insert the following clause:

Ozone-Depleting Substances  and High Global Warming Potential Hydrofluorocarbons ( Jun 2016)

(a) Definitions . As used in this clause–

Global warming potential  means how much a given mass of a chemical contributes to global

warming over a given time period compared to the same mass of carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide’s

global warming potential is defined as [1.0](/part-1/1.0).

High global warming potential hydrofluorocarbons  means any hydrofluorocarbons in a

particular end use for which EPA’s Significant New Alternatives Policy (SNAP) program has

identified other acceptable alternatives that have lower global warming potential. The SNAP list of

alternatives is found at 40 CFR Part 82  subpart G with supplemental tables of alternatives available

at (http://www.epa.gov/snap/ ).

Hydrofluorocarbons  means compounds that only contain hydrogen, fluorine, and carbon.

Ozone-depleting substance , means any substance the Environmental Protection Agency

designates in 40 CFR part 82  as-

(1) Class I, including, but not limited to, chlorofluorocarbons, halons, carbon tetrachloride,

and methyl chloroform; or

(2) Class II, including, but not limited to, hydrochlorofluorocarbons.

(b) The Contractor shall label products that contain or are manufactured with ozone-depleting

substances  in the manner and to the extent required by 42 U.S.C.7671j (b), (c), (d), and (e) and 40

CFR part 82 , subpartE, as follows:

Warning

Contains (or manufactured with, if applicable) *_______, a substance(s) which harm(s) public

health and environment by destroying ozone in the upper atmosphere.

* The Contractor shall insert the name of the substance(s).

(c) Reporting.  For equipment and appliances that normally each contain 50 or more pounds of

hydrofluorocarbons or refrigerant blends containing hydrofluorocarbons, the Contractor shall–

(1) Track on an annual basis, between October 1 and September 30, the amount in pounds of

hydrofluorocarbons or refrigerant blends containing hydrofluorocarbons contained in the equipment

and appliances delivered to the Government under this contract by–

(i) Type of hydrofluorocarbon (e.g., HFC-134 a, HFC-125, R-410 A, R-404 A, etc.);

(ii) Contract number; and

(iii) Equipment/appliance;

(2) Report that information to the Contracting Officer for FY16 and to www.sam.gov , for FY17

and after–

(i) Annually by November 30 of each year during contract performance; and

(ii) At the end of contract performance.

(d) The Contractor shall refer to EPA’s SNAP program (available at http://www.epa.gov/snap ) to

identify alternatives. The SNAP list of alternatives is found at 40 CFR part 82  subpart G with

supplemental tables available at http://www.epa.gov/snap .

(End of clause)
