---
id: 52.230-4
title: "52.230-4 )-"
sidebar_label: "52.230-4"
---

# 52.230-4 )-

(i) Within 60 days (or such other date as may be mutually agreed to by the CFAO and the

Contractor) after the date of agreement with the CFAO that there is a noncompliance; or

(ii) In the event of Contractor disagreement, within 60 days after the CFAO notifies the

Contractor of the determination of noncompliance.

(c) When requested by the CFAO, submit on or before a date specified by the CFAO-

(1) A general dollar magnitude (GDM) proposal in accordance with paragraph (d) or (g) of this

clause. The Contractor may submit a detailed cost-impact (DCI) proposal in lieu of the requested

GDM proposal provided the DCI proposal is in accordance with paragraph (e) or (h) of this clause;

(2) A detailed cost-impact (DCI) proposal in accordance with paragraph (e) or (h) of this

clause;

(3) For any request for a desirable change that is based on the criteria in FAR

30.603-2 (b)(3)(ii), the data necessary to demonstrate the required cost savings; and

(4) For any request for a desirable change that is based on criteria other than that in FAR

30.603-2 (b)(3)(ii), a GDM proposal and any other data necessary for the CFAO to determine if the

change is a desirable change.

(d) For any change in cost accounting practice subject to paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this

clause, the GDM proposal shall-

(1) ) Calculate the cost impact in accordance with paragraph (f) of this clause;

(2) Use one or more of the following methods to determine the increase or decrease in cost

accumulations:

(i) A representative sample of affected CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts.

(ii) The change in indirect rates multiplied by the total estimated base computed for each

of the following groups:

(A) Fixed-price contracts and subcontracts.

(B) Flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts.

(iii) Any other method that provides a reasonable approximation of the total increase or

decrease in cost accumulations for all affected fixed-price and flexibly-priced contracts and

subcontracts;

(3) Use a format acceptable to the CFAO but, as a minimum, include the following data:

(i) The estimated increase or decrease in cost accumulations by Executive agency,

including any impact the change may have on contract and subcontract incentives, fees, and profits,

for each of the following groups:

(A) Fixed-price contracts and subcontracts.

(B) Flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts.

(ii) For unilateral changes , the increased or decreased costs to the Government for each of

the following groups:

(A) Fixed-price contracts and subcontracts.

(B) Flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts; and

(4) When requested by the CFAO, identify all affected CAS-covered contracts and

subcontracts.

(e) For any change in cost accounting practice subject to paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this

clause, the DCI proposal shall-

(1) Show the calculation of the cost impact in accordance with paragraph (f) of this clause;

(2) Show the estimated increase or decrease in cost accumulations for each affected CAS-

covered contract and subcontract unless the CFAO and Contractor agree to include-

(i) Only those affected CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts having an estimate to

complete exceeding a specified amount; and

(ii) An estimate of the total increase or decrease in cost accumulations for all affected

CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts, using the results in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this clause;

(3) Use a format acceptable to the CFAO but, as a minimum, include the information in

paragraph (d)(3) of this clause; and

(4) When requested by the CFAO, identify all affected CAS-covered contracts and

subcontracts.

(f) For GDM and DCI proposals that are subject to the requirements of paragraph (d) or (e) of

this clause, calculate the cost impact as follows:

(1) The cost impact calculation shall include all affected CAS-covered contracts and

subcontracts regardless of their status (i.e., open or closed) or the fiscal year in which the costs

were incurred (i.e., whether or not the final indirect rates have been established).

(2) For unilateral changes -

(i) Determine the increased or decreased cost to the Government for flexibly-priced

contracts and subcontracts as follows:

(A) When the estimated cost to complete using the changed practice exceeds the

estimated cost to complete using the current practice, the difference is increased cost to the

Government.

(B) When the estimated cost to complete using the changed practice is less than the

estimated cost to complete using the current practice, the difference is decreased cost to the

Government;

(ii) Determine the increased or decreased cost to the Government for fixed-priced

contracts and subcontracts as follows:

(A) When the estimated cost to complete using the changed practice is less than the

estimated cost to complete using the current practice, the difference is increased cost to the

Government.

(B) When the estimated cost to complete using the changed practice exceeds the

estimated cost to complete using the current practice, the difference is decreased cost to the

Government;

(iii) Calculate the total increase or decrease in contract and subcontract incentives, fees,

and profits associated with the increased or decreased costs to the Government in accordance with

48 CFR 9903.306(c) . The associated increase or decrease is based on the difference between the

negotiated incentives, fees, and profits and the amounts that would have been negotiated had the

cost impact been known at the time the contracts and subcontracts were negotiated; and

(iv) Calculate the increased cost to the Government in the aggregate.

(3) For equitable adjustments for required or desirable changes -

(i) Estimated increased cost accumulations are the basis for increasing contract prices,

target prices and cost ceilings; and

(ii) Estimated decreased cost accumulations are the basis for decreasing contract prices,

target prices and cost ceilings.

(g) For any noncompliant cost accounting practice subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this clause,

prepare the GDM proposal as follows:

(1) Calculate the cost impact in accordance with paragraph (i) of this clause.

(2) Use one or more of the following methods to determine the increase or decrease in

contract and subcontract prices or cost accumulations, as applicable:

(i) A representative sample of affected CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts.

(ii) When the noncompliance involves cost accumulation the change in indirect rates

multiplied by the applicable base for only flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts.

(iii) Any other method that provides a reasonable approximation of the total increase or

decrease.

(3) Use a format acceptable to the CFAO but, as a minimum, include the following data:

(i) The total increase or decrease in contract and subcontract price and cost

accumulations, as applicable, by Executive agency, including any impact the noncompliance may

have on contract and subcontract incentives, fees, and profits, for each of the following groups:

(A) Fixed-price contracts and subcontracts.

(B) Flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts.

(ii) The increased or decreased cost to the Government for each of the following groups:

(A) Fixed-price contracts and subcontracts.

(B) Flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts.

(iii) The total overpayments and underpayments made by the Government during the

period of noncompliance.

(4) When requested by the CFAO, identify all CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts.

(h) For any noncompliant practice subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this clause, prepare the DCI

proposal as follows:

(1) Calculate the cost impact in accordance with paragraph (i) of this clause.

(2) Show the increase or decrease in price and cost accumulations for each affected CAS-

covered contract and subcontract unless the CFAO and Contractor agree to-

(i) Include only those affected CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts having-

(A) Contract and subcontract values exceeding a specified amount when the

noncompliance involves estimating costs; and

(B) Incurred costs exceeding a specified amount when the noncompliance involves

accumulating costs; and

(ii) Estimate the total increase or decrease in price and cost accumulations for all affected

CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts using the results in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this clause.

(3) Use a format acceptable to the CFAO that, as a minimum, include the information in

paragraph (g)(3) of this clause.

(4) When requested by the CFAO, identify all CAS-covered contracts and subcontracts.

(i) For GDM and DCI proposals that are subject to the requirements of paragraph (g) or (h) of

this clause, calculate the cost impact as follows:

(1) The cost impact calculation shall include all affected CAS-covered contracts and

subcontracts regardless of their status ( i.e., open or closed) or the fiscal year in which the costs are

incurred (i.e., whether or not the final indirect rates have been established).

(2) For noncompliances  that involve estimating costs, determine the increased or decreased

cost to the Government for fixed-price contracts and subcontracts as follows:

(i) When the negotiated contract or subcontract price exceeds what the negotiated price

would have been had the Contractor used a compliant practice, the difference is increased cost to

the Government.

(ii) When the negotiated contract or subcontract price is less than what the negotiated

price would have been had the Contractor used a compliant practice, the difference is decreased

cost to the Government.

(3) For noncompliances  that involve accumulating costs, determine the increased or

decreased cost to the Government for flexibly-priced contracts and subcontracts as follows:

(i) When the costs that were accumulated under the noncompliant practice exceed the

costs that would have been accumulated using a compliant practice (from the time the noncompliant

practice was first implemented until the date the noncompliant practice was replaced with a

compliant practice), the difference is increased cost to the Government.

(ii) When the costs that were accumulated under the noncompliant practice are less than

the costs that would have been accumulated using a compliant practice (from the time the

noncompliant practice was first implemented until the date the noncompliant practice was replaced

with a compliant practice), the difference is decreased cost to the Government.

(4) Calculate the total increase or decrease in contract and subcontracts incentives, fees, and

profits associated with the increased or decreased cost to the Government in accordance with 48

CFR 9903.306(c) . The associated increase or decrease is based on the difference between the

negotiated incentives, fees, and profits and the amounts that would have been negotiated had the

Contractor used a compliant practice.

(5) Calculate the increased cost to the Government in the aggregate.

(j) If the Contractor does not submit the information required by paragraph (b) or (c) of this

clause within the specified time, or any extension granted by the CFAO, the CFAO may take one or

both of the following actions:

(1) Withhold an amount not to exceed 10 percent of each subsequent amount payment to the

Contractor’s affected CAS-covered contracts, (up to the estimated general dollar magnitude of the

cost impact), until such time as the Contractor provides the required information to the CFAO.

(2) Issue a final decision in accordance with FAR 33.211  and unilaterally adjust the

contract(s) by the estimated amount of the cost impact.

(k) Agree to-

(1) Contract modifications  to reflect adjustments required in accordance with paragraph

(a)(4)(ii) or (a)(5) of the clauses at FAR 52.230-2  and 52.230-5 ; or with paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (a)(4) of

the clauses at FAR 52.230-3  and FAR 52.230-4 ; and

(2) Repay the Government for any aggregate increased cost paid to the Contractor.

(l) For all subcontracts subject to the clauses at FAR 52.230-2 , 52.230-3 , 52.230-4 , or 52.230-5 -

(1) So state in the body of the subcontract, in the letter of award, or in both (do not use self-

deleting clauses);

(2) Include the substance of this clause in all negotiated subcontracts; and

(3) Within 30 days after award of the subcontract, submit the following information to the

Contractor’s CFAO:

(i) Subcontractor’s name and subcontract number.

(ii) Dollar amount and date of award.

(iii) Name of Contractor making the award.

(m) Notify the CFAO in writing of any adjustments required to subcontracts under this contract

and agree to an adjustment to this contract price or estimated cost and fee. The Contractor shall-

(1) Provide this notice within 30 days after the Contractor receives the proposed subcontract

adjustments; and

(2) Include a proposal for adjusting the higher-tier subcontract or the contract appropriately.

(n) For subcontracts containing the clause or substance of the clause at FAR 52.230-2 , FAR
