---
id: 52.204-7
title: "52.204-7 ), the Contractor shall report the names and total compensation of each of the five most"
sidebar_label: "52.204-7"
---

# 52.204-7 ), the Contractor shall report the names and total compensation of each of the five most

highly compensated executives  for its preceding completed fiscal year, if–

(i) In the Contractor’s preceding fiscal year, the Contractor received-

(A) 80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and

subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), cooperative agreements, and other forms of Federal

financial assistance; and

(B) $25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and

subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), cooperative agreements, and other forms of Federal

financial assistance; and

(ii) The public does not have access to information about the compensation of the

executives  through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act

of 1934 ( 15 U.S.C. 78m(a), 78o(d) ) or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (To

determine if the public has access to the compensation information, see the U.S. Security and

Exchange Commission total compensation filings at http://www.sec.gov/answers/execomp.htm .)

(2) First-tier subcontract information . Unless otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer,

or as provided in paragraph (g) of this clause, by the end of the month following the month of award

of a first-tier subcontract valued at or above the threshold specified in FAR 4.1403 (a) on the date of

subcontract award, the Contractor shall report the following information at http://www.fsrs.gov  for

that first-tier subcontract. (The Contractor shall follow the instructions at http://www.fsrs.gov  to

report the data.)

(i) Unique entity identifier for the subcontractor receiving the award and for the

subcontractor's parent company, if the subcontractor has a parent company.

(ii) Name of the subcontractor.

(iii) Amount of the subcontract award.

(iv) Date of the subcontract award.

(v) A description of the products or services (including construction) being provided under

the subcontract, including the overall purpose and expected outcomes or results of the subcontract.

(vi) Subcontract number (the subcontract number assigned by the Contractor).

(vii) Subcontractor’s physical address including street address, city, state, and country.

Also include the nine-digit zip code and congressional district.

(viii) Subcontractor’s primary performance location including street address, city, state,

and country. Also include the nine-digit zip code and congressional district.

(ix) The prime contract number, and order number if applicable.

(x) Awarding agency name and code.

(xi) Funding agency name and code.

(xii) Government contracting office code.

(xiii) Treasury account symbol (TAS) as reported in FPDS.

(xiv) The applicable North American Industry Classification System code (NAICS).

(3) Executive compensation of the first-tier subcontractor. Unless otherwise directed by the

Contracting Officer, by the end of the month following the month of award of a first-tier subcontract

valued at or above the threshold specified in FAR 4.1403 (a) on the date of subcontract award, and

annually thereafter (calculated from the prime contract award date), the Contractor shall report the

names and total compensation of each of the five most highly compensated executives  for that first-

tier subcontractor for the first-tier subcontractor’s preceding completed fiscal year at

http://www.fsrs.gov , if-

(i) In the subcontractor’s preceding fiscal year, the subcontractor received-

(A) 80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and

subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), cooperative agreements, and other forms of Federal

financial assistance; and

(B) $25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and

subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), cooperative agreements, and other forms of Federal

financial assistance; and

(ii) The public does not have access to information about the compensation of the

executives  through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act

of 1934 ( 15 U.S.C. 78m(a), 78o(d) ) or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (To

determine if the public has access to the compensation information, see the U.S. Security and

Exchange Commission total compensation filings at http://www.sec.gov/answers/execomp.htm .)

(e) The Contractor shall not split or break down first-tier subcontract awards to a value below

the threshold specified in FAR 4.1403 (a), on the date of subcontract award, to avoid the reporting

requirements in paragraph (d) of this clause.

(f) The Contractor is required to report information on a first-tier subcontract covered by

paragraph (d) when the subcontract is awarded. Continued reporting on the same subcontract is not

required unless one of the reported data elements changes during the performance of the

subcontract. The Contractor is not required to make further reports after the first-tier subcontract

expires.

(g)

(1) If the Contractor in the previous tax year had gross income, from all sources, under $300,000,

the Contractor is exempt from the requirement to report subcontractor awards.

(2) If a subcontractor in the previous tax year had gross income from all sources under

$300,000, the Contractor does not need to report awards for that subcontractor.

(h) The FSRS database at http://www.fsrs.gov  will be prepopulated with some information from

SAM and the FPDS database. If FPDS information is incorrect, the contractor should notify the

contracting officer. If the SAM information is incorrect, the contractor is responsible for correcting

this information.

(End of clause)
