---
id: 52.219-28
title: "52.219-28 Post-Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation"
sidebar_label: "52.219-28"
---

# 52.219-28 Post-Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation

As prescribed in [19.309](/part-19/19.309) (c)(1) , insert the following clause:

Post-Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Oct 2022)

(a) Definitions . As used in this clause—

Long-term contract  means a contract of more than five years in duration, including options .

However, the term does not include contracts that exceed five years in duration because the period

of performance has been extended for a cumulative period not to exceed six months under the clause

at [52.217-8](/part-52/52.217-8) , Option to Extend Services, or other appropriate authority.

Small business concern —

(1) Means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not

dominant in its field of operation, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part

121 and the size standard in paragraph (d) of this clause.

(2) Affiliates , as used in this definition, means business concerns, one of whom directly or

indirectly controls or has the power to control the others, or a third party or parties control or have

the power to control the others. In determining whether affiliation exists, consideration is given to

all appropriate factors including common ownership, common management, and contractual

relationships. SBA determines affiliation based on the factors set forth at 13 CFR 121.103.

(b) If the Contractor represented that it was any of the small business concerns  identified in

[19.000](/part-19/19.000) (a)(3) prior to award of this contract, the Contractor shall rerepresent its size and

socioeconomic status according to paragraph (f) of this clause or, if applicable, paragraph (h) of this

clause, upon occurrence of any of the following:

(1) Within 30 days after execution of a novation agreement or within 30 days after

modification of the contract to include this clause, if the novation agreement was executed prior to

inclusion of this clause in the contract.

(2) Within 30 days after a merger or acquisition that does not require a novation or within 30

days after modification of the contract to include this clause, if the merger or acquisition occurred

prior to inclusion of this clause in the contract.

(3) For long-term contracts -

(i) Within 60 to 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract; and

(ii) Within 60 to 120 days prior to the date specified in the contract for exercising any

option thereafter.

(c) If the Contractor represented that it was any of the small business concerns  identified in

[19.000](/part-19/19.000) (a)(3) prior to award of this contract, the Contractor shall rerepresent its size and

socioeconomic status according to paragraph (f) of this clause or, if applicable, paragraph (h) of this

clause, when the Contracting Officer explicitly requires it for an order issued under a multiple-award

contract.

(d) The Contractor shall rerepresent its size status in accordance with the size standard in effect

at the time of this rerepresentation that corresponds to the North American Industry Classification

System (NAICS) code(s) assigned to this contract. The small business size standard corresponding to

this NAICS code(s) can be found at https://www.sba.gov/document/support--table-size-standards .

(e) The small business size standard for a Contractor providing an end item that it does not

manufacture, process, or produce itself, for a contract other than a construction or service contract,

is 500 employees if the acquisition—

(1)Was set aside for small business and has a value above the simplified acquisition threshold;

(2)Used the HUBZone price evaluation preference regardless of dollar value, unless the

Contractor waived the price evaluation preference; or

(3)Was an 8(a), HUBZone, service-disabled veteran-owned, economically disadvantaged

women-owned, or women-owned small business set-aside or sole-source award regardless of dollar

value.

(f) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this clause, the Contractor shall make the

representation(s) required by paragraph (b) and (c) of this clause by validating or updating all its

representations in the Representations and Certifications section of the System for Award

Management (SAM) and its other data in SAM, as necessary, to ensure that they reflect the

Contractor's current status. The Contractor shall notify the contracting office in writing within the

timeframes specified in paragraph (b) of this clause, or with its offer for an order (see paragraph (c)

of this clause), that the data have been validated or updated, and provide the date of the validation

or update.

(g) If the Contractor represented that it was other than a small business concern prior to award

of this contract, the Contractor may, but is not required to, take the actions required by paragraphs

(f) or (h) of this clause.

(h) If the Contractor does not have representations and certifications in SAM, or does not have a

representation in SAM for the NAICS code applicable to this contract, the Contractor is required to

complete the following rerepresentation and submit it to the contracting office, along with the

contract number and the date on which the rerepresentation was completed:

(1) The Contractor represents that it □ is, □ is not a small business concern under NAICS

Code _____ assigned to contract number _____.

(2) [ Complete only if the Contractor represented itself as a small business concern in

paragraph (h)(1) of this clause .] The Contractor represents that it □ is, □ is not, a small

disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002 .

(3) [ Complete only if the Contractor represented itself as a small business concern in

paragraph (h)(1) of this clause.  ] The Contractor represents that it □ is, □ is not a women-owned

small business concern.

(4) Women-owned small business (WOSB) joint venture eligible under the WOSB Program.

The Contractor represents that it □ is, □ is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements

of 13 CFR 127.506(a)  through (c). [ The Contractor shall enter the name and unique entity identifier

of each party to the joint venture:  __.]

(5) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) joint venture. The

Contractor represents that it □ is, □ is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13

CFR 127.506(a)  through (c). [ The Contractor shall enter the name and unique entity identifier of

each party to the joint venture:  __ .]

(6) [ Complete only if the Contractor represented itself as a small business concern in

paragraph (h)(1) of this clause.  ] The Contractor represents that it □ is, □ is not a veteran-owned

small business concern.

(7) [ Complete only if the Contractor represented itself as a veteran-owned small business

concern in paragraph (h)(6) of this clause. ] The Contractor represents that it □ is, □ is not a service-

disabled veteran-owned small business concern.

(8) [ Complete only if the Contractor represented itself as a small business concern in

paragraph (h)(1) of this clause.  ] The Contractor represents that—

(i) It □ is, □ is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this

representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns  maintained by the Small

Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or

HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR part

126; and

(ii) It □ is, □ is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13

CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (h)(8)(i) of this clause is accurate for each

HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The Contractor shall

enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns  participating in the HUBZone joint

venture: _____. ] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture

shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation.

[Contractor to sign and date and insert authorized signer's name and title. ]

(End of clause)

Alternate I  (Mar 2020) . As prescribed in [19.309](/part-19/19.309) (c)(2), substitute the following paragraph (h)(1) for

paragraph (h)(1) of the basic clause:

(h)(1) The Contractor represents its small business size status for each one of the NAICS codes

assigned to this contract.

NAICS Code Small business concern (yes/no)

________________________________ ________________________________

________________________________ ________________________________

NAICS Code Small business concern (yes/no)

________________________________ ________________________________

[Contracting Officer to insert NAICS codes. ]
