---
id: 52.204-10
title: "52.204-10 Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards"
sidebar_label: "52.204-10"
---

# 52.204-10 Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards

As prescribed in 4.1403 (a), insert the following clause:

Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jun 2020)

(a) Definitions . As used in this clause:

Executive  means officers, managing partners, or any other employees in management positions.

First-tier subcontract  means a subcontract awarded directly by the Contractor for the purpose of

acquiring supplies or services (including construction) for performance of a prime contract. It does

not include the Contractor’s supplier agreements with vendors, such as long-term arrangements for

materials or supplies that benefit multiple contracts and/or the costs of which are normally applied

to a Contractor’s general and administrative expenses or indirect costs .

Month of award  means the month in which a contract is signed by the Contracting Officer or the

month in which a first-tier subcontract is signed by the Contractor.

Total compensation  means the cash and noncash dollar value earned by the executive during the

Contractor’s preceding fiscal year and includes the following (for more information see 17 CFR

229.402(c)(2) ):

(1) Salary and bonus .

(2) Awards of stock, stock options , and stock appreciation rights . Use the dollar amount

recognized for financial statement reporting purposes with respect to the fiscal year in accordance

with the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification (FASB ASC)

718, Compensation-Stock Compensation.

(3) Earnings for services under non-equity incentive plans . This does not include group life,

health, hospitalization or medical reimbursement plans that do not discriminate in favor of

executives , and are available generally to all salaried employees.

(4) Change in pension value . This is the change in present value of defined benefit and

actuarial pension plans.

(5) Above-market earnings on deferred compensation which is not tax-qualified .

(6) Other compensation, if the aggregate value of all such other compensation ( e.g.,

severance, termination payments, value of life insurance paid on behalf of the employee, perquisites

or property) for the executive exceeds $10,000.

(b) Section 2(d)(2) of the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (Pub. L.

109-282), as amended by section 6202 of the Government Funding Transparency Act of 2008 (Pub.

L. 110-252), requires the Contractor to report information on subcontract awards. The law requires

all reported information be made public, therefore, the Contractor is responsible for notifying its

subcontractors that the required information will be made public.

(c) Nothing in this clause requires the disclosure of classified information

(d)

(1) Executive compensation of the prime contractor. As a part of its annual registration requirement

in the System for Award Management (SAM) (Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) provision
