---
id: 52.232-7
title: "52.232-7 Payments under Time-and-Materials and Labor-Hour Contracts"
sidebar_label: "52.232-7"
---

# 52.232-7 Payments under Time-and-Materials and Labor-Hour Contracts

As prescribed in [32.111](/part-32/32.111) (a)(7) , insert the following clause:

Payments under Time-and-Materials and Labor-Hour Contracts (Nov 2021)

The Government will pay the Contractor as follows upon the submission of vouchers approved by the

Contracting Officer or the authorized representative:

(a) Hourly rate .

(1) Hourly rate  means the rate(s) prescribed in the contract for payment for labor that meets the

labor category qualifications of a labor category specified in the contract that are-

(i) Performed by the Contractor;

(ii) Performed by the subcontractors; or

(iii) Transferred between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the Contractor under a

common control.

(2) The amounts shall be computed by multiplying the appropriate hourly rates prescribed in

the Schedule by the number of direct labor hours performed.

(3) The hourly rates shall be paid for all labor performed on the contract that meets the labor

qualifications specified in the contract. Labor hours incurred to perform tasks for which labor

qualifications were specified in the contract will not be paid to the extent the work is performed by

employees that do not meet the qualifications specified in the contract, unless specifically authorized

by the Contracting Officer.

(4) The hourly rates shall include wages, indirect costs , general and administrative expense,

and profit. Fractional parts of an hour shall be payable on a prorated basis.

(5) Vouchers may be submitted not more than once every two weeks, to the Contracting

Officer or authorized representative. A small business concern may receive more frequent payments

than every two weeks. The Contractor shall substantiate vouchers (including any subcontractor

hours reimbursed at the hourly rate in the schedule) by evidence of actual payment and by-

(i) Individual daily job timekeeping records;

(ii) Records that verify the employees meet the qualifications for the labor categories

specified in the contract; or

(iii) Other substantiation approved by the Contracting Officer.

(6) Promptly after receipt of each substantiated voucher, the Government shall, except as

otherwise provided in this contract, and subject to the terms of paragraph (e) of this clause, pay the

voucher as approved by the Contracting Officer or authorized representative.

(7) Unless otherwise prescribed in the Schedule, the Contracting Officer may unilaterally

issue a contract modification requiring the Contractor to withhold amounts from its billings until a

reserve is set aside in an amount that the Contracting Officer considers necessary to protect the

Government's interests. The Contracting Officer may require a withhold of 5 percent of the amounts

due under paragraph (a) of this clause, but the total amount withheld for the contract shall not

exceed $50,000. The amounts withheld shall be retained until the Contractor executes and delivers

the release required by paragraph (g) of this clause.

(8) Unless the Schedule prescribes otherwise, the hourly rates in the Schedule shall not be

varied by virtue of the Contractor having performed work on an overtime basis. If no overtime rates

are provided in the Schedule and overtime work is approved in advance by the Contracting Officer,

overtime rates shall be negotiated. Failure to agree upon these overtime rates shall be treated as a

dispute under the Disputes clause of this contract. If the Schedule provides rates for overtime, the

premium portion of those rates will be reimbursable only to the extent the overtime is approved by

the Contracting Officer.

(b) Materials.

(1) For the purposes of this clause-

(i) Direct materials  means those materials that enter directly into the end product, or that

are used or consumed directly in connection with the furnishing of the end product or service.

(ii) Materials  means-

(A) Direct materials, including supplies transferred between divisions, subsidiaries, or

affiliates of the Contractor under a common control;

(B) Subcontracts for supplies and incidental services for which there is not a labor

category specified in the contract;

(C) Other direct costs  (e.g., incidental services for which there is not a labor category

specified in the contract, travel, computer usage charges, etc.); and

(D) Applicable indirect costs .

(2) If the Contractor furnishes its own materials that meet the definition of a commercial

product or commercial service in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) [2.101](/part-2/2.101) , the price to be paid

for such materials shall not exceed the Contractor's established catalog or market price, adjusted to

reflect the-

(i) Quantities being acquired; and

(ii) Actual cost of any modifications necessary because of contract requirements.

(3) Except as provided for in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause, the Government will reimburse

the Contractor for allowable cost of materials provided the Contractor-

(i) Has made payments for materials in accordance with the terms and conditions of the

agreement or invoice; or

(ii) Ordinarily makes these payments within 30 days of the submission of the Contractor's

payment request to the Government and such payment is in accordance with the terms and

conditions of the agreement or invoice.

(4) Payment for materials is subject to the Allowable Cost and Payment clause of this

contract. The Contracting Officer will determine allowable costs of materials in accordance with FAR

subpart  [31.2](/part-31/31.2)  in effect on the date of this contract.

(5) The Contractor may include allocable indirect costs  and other direct costs  to the extent

they are-

(i) Comprised only of costs that are clearly excluded from the hourly rate;

(ii) Allocated in accordance with the Contractor's written or established accounting

practices; and

(iii) Indirect costs  are not applied to subcontracts that are paid at the hourly rates.

(6) To the extent able, the Contractor shall-

(i) Obtain materials at the most advantageous prices available with due regard to securing

prompt delivery of satisfactory materials; and

(ii) Take all cash and trade discounts, rebates, allowances, credits, salvage, commissions,

and other benefits. When unable to take advantage of the benefits, the Contractor shall promptly

notify the Contracting Officer and give the reasons. The Contractor shall give credit to the

Government for cash and trade discounts, rebates, scrap, commissions, and other amounts that have

accrued to the benefit of the Contractor, or would have accrued except for the fault or neglect of the

Contractor. The Contractor shall not deduct from gross costs the benefits lost without fault or

neglect on the part of the Contractor, or lost through fault of the Government.

(7) Except as provided for in [31.205-26](/part-31/31.205-26) (e) and (f), the Government will not pay profit or fee to

the prime Contractor on materials.

(c) If the Contractor enters into any subcontract that requires consent under the clause at
