---
id: 52.204-25
title: "52.204-25 , Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance"
sidebar_label: "52.204-25"
---

# 52.204-25 , Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance

Services or Equipment.

Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern  means a small

business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the

management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are

citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR

part 127 , and the concern is certified by SBA or an approved third-party certifier in accordance with

13 CFR 127.300 . It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the

WOSB Program.

Forced or indentured child labor  means all work or service—

(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its

nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or

(2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of

which can be accomplished by process or penalties.

Highest-level owner  means the entity that owns or controls an immediate owner of the offeror, or

that owns or controls one or more entities that control an immediate owner of the offeror. No entity

owns or exercises control of the highest level owner.

Immediate owner  means an entity, other than the offeror, that has direct control of the offeror.

Indicators of control include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following: ownership or

interlocking management, identity of interests among family members, shared facilities and

equipment, and the common use of employees.

Inverted domestic corporation , means a foreign incorporated entity that meets the definition of

an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395 (b), applied in accordance with the rules and

definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395 (c).

Manufactured end product  means any end product in product and service codes (PSCs)

1000-9999, except—

(1) PSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials;

(2) Product or Service Group (PSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;

(3) PSG 88, Live Animals;

(4) PSG 89, Subsistence;

(5) PSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials;

(6) PSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;

(7) PSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products;

(8) PSC 9610, Ores;

(9) PSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and

(10) PSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials.

Place of manufacture  means the place where an end product is assembled out of components , or

otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to

the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the

place of manufacture.

Predecessor  means an entity that is replaced by a successor and includes any predecessors  of

the predecessor.

Reasonable inquiry  has the meaning provided in the clause 52.204-25 , Prohibition on

Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment.

Restricted business operations  means business operations in Sudan that include power

production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military

equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub.

L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as

that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007)

conducting the business can demonstrate—

(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of

southern Sudan;

(2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control

in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the

requirement to be conducted under such authorization;

(3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;

(4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force

or humanitarian organization;

(5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education;

or

(6) Have been voluntarily suspended."Sensitive technology"—

Sensitive technology —

(1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that

is to be used specifically—

(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or

(ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and

(2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President

does not have the authority to regulate or prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3)of the International

Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)).

Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern —

(1) Means a small business concern—

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or,

in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned

by one or more service-disabled veterans; and

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more

service-disabled veteransor, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe

disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.

(2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101 (2), with a disability

that is service connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101 (16).

Small business concern —

(1) Means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not

dominant in its field of operation, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part

121 and size standards in this solicitation.

(2) Affiliates , as used in this definition, means business concerns, one of whom directly or

indirectly controls or has the power to control the others, or a third party or parties control or have

the power to control the others. In determining whether affiliation exists, consideration is given to

all appropriate factors including common ownership, common management, and contractual

relationships. SBA determines affiliation based on the factors set forth at 13 CFR 121.103.

Small disadvantaged business concern , consistent with13 CFR 124.1002, means a small business

concern under the size standard applicable to the acquisition, that—

(1) Is at least 51 percent unconditionally and directly owned (as defined at 13 CFR 124.105 )

by—

(i) One or more socially disadvantaged (as defined at13 CFR 124.103) and economically

disadvantaged (as defined at 13 CFR 124.104 ) individuals who are citizens of the United States; and

(ii) Each individual claiming economic disadvantage has a net worth not exceeding

$750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR124.104(c)(2); and

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled (as defined at

13.CFR 124.106) by individuals, who meet the criteria in paragraphs (1)(i) and (ii) of this definition.

Subsidiary  means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned—

(1) Directly by a parent corporation; or

(2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation

Successor  means an entity that has replaced a predecessor by acquiring the assets and carrying

out the affairs of the predecessor under a new name (often through acquisition or merger). The term

"successor" does not include new offices/divisions of the same company or a company that only

changes its name. The extent of the responsibility of the successor for the liabilities of the

predecessor may vary, depending on State law and specific circumstances.

Veteran-owned small business concern  means a small business concern—

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38

U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of

which is owned by one or more veterans; and

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more

veterans.

Women-owned business concern  means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or

more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned

by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one

or more women

Women-owned small business concern  means a small business concern—

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly

owned business, at least51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.

Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program  (in accordance

with 13 CFR part 127 ), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and

unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are

controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States, and the concern is certified

by SBA or an approved third-party certifier in accordance with 13 CFR 127.300 .

(b)

(1) Annual Representations and Certifications . Any changes provided by the Offeror in paragraph

(b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications in SAM.

(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically in

SAM accessed through http://www.sam.gov . After reviewing SAM information, the Offeror verifies

by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically

at FAR 52.212-3 , Offeror Representations and Certifications- Commercial Products  and Commercial

Services , have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and

applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard(s) applicable to the NAICS

code(s) referenced for this solicitation), at the time this offer is submitted and are incorporated in

this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201 ), except for paragraphs ______________.

[Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (v) of this provision that the

offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any.

These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer

and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.

Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result

in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on SAM. ]

(c) Offerors  must complete the following representations when the resulting contract is for

supplies to be delivered or services to be performed in the United States or its outlying areas, or

when the contracting officer has applied part  19  in accordance with 19.000 (b)(1)(ii). Check all that

apply.

(1) Small business concern . The offeror represents as part of its offer that—

(i)It □ is, □ is not a small business concern; or

(ii)It □ is, □ is not a small business joint venture that complies with the requirements of

13 CFR 121.103(h)  and 13 CFR 125.8(a)  and (b). [ The offeror shall enter the name and unique

entity identifier of each party to the joint venture:  __.]

(2) Veteran-owned small business concern . [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as

a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision .] The offeror represents as part of its

offer that it □ is, □ is not a veteran-owned small business concern.

(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.  [ Complete only if the offeror

represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision. ]

The offeror represents as part of its offer that—

(4) Small disadvantaged business concern . [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as

a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision .] The offeror represents, that it □ is, □

is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.

(5) Women-owned small business concern . [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as

a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision .] The offeror represents that it □ is, □

is not a women-owned small business concern.

(6) WOSB joint venture eligible under the WOSB Program.  The offeror represents that it □ is,

□ is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR 127.506(a)  through (c). [ The

offeror shall enter the name and unique entity identifier of each party to the joint venture:  __.]

(7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) joint venture.  The

offeror represents that it □ is, □ is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13

CFR 127.506(a)  through (c). [ The offeror shall enter the name and unique entity identifier of each

party to the joint venture:  __.]

(8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern ). [Complete only if

the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business

concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision .] The offeror represents that it □ is a women-owned

business concern.

(9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns . If this is an invitation for bid, small

business offerors  may identify the labor surplus areas  in which costs to be incurred on account of

manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50

percent of the contract price:____________________________________

(10) HUBZone small business concern . [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a

small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision .] The offeror represents, as part of its

offer, that–

(i) It □ is, □ is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this

representation, as having been certified by SBA as a HUBZone small business concern in the

Dynamic Small Business Search and SAM, and will attempt to maintain an employment rate of

HUBZone residents of 35 percent of its employees during performance of a HUBZone contract (see

13 CFR 126.200(e)(1) ); and

(ii) It □ is, □ is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13

CFR 126.616(a)  through (c). [ The offeror shall enter the name and unique entity identifier of each

party to the joint venture:  __.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone

joint venture shall provide representation of its HUBZone status.

(d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order11246-

(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that-

(i) It □ has, □ has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the

Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and

(ii) It □ has, □ has not filed all required compliance reports.

(2) Affirmative Action Compliance . The offeror represents that-

(i) It □ has developed and has on file, □ has not developed and does not have on file, at

each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary

of Labor (41 CFR parts 60-1 and 60-2), or

(ii) It □ has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs

requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor.

(e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31

http://uscode.house.gov/ U.S.C. 1352) . (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.)

By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal

appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to

influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of

Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award

of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a

lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and

submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the

name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the

offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made.

(f) Buy American Certificate . (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
