---
id: 52.223-5
title: "52.223-5 Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information"
sidebar_label: "52.223-5"
---

# 52.223-5 Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information

As prescribed in 23.1005  , insert the following clause:

Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information (May 2011)

(a) Definitions . As used in this clause-

Toxic chemical  means a chemical or chemical category listed in 40 CFR372.65.

(b) Federal facilities are required to comply with the provisions of the Emergency Planning and

Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (EPCRA) ( 42U.S. C.11001-11050 ), and the Pollution

Prevention Act of 1990 (PPA) ( 42U.S. C.13101-13109 ).

(c) The Contractor shall provide all information needed by the Federal facility to comply with the

following:

(1) The emergency planning reporting requirements of Section 302 of EPCRA.

(2) The emergency notice requirements of Section 304 of EPCRA.

(3) The list of Material Safety Data Sheets, required by Section 311 of EPCRA.

(4) The emergency and hazardous chemical inventory forms of Section 312 of EPCRA.

(5) The toxic chemical release inventory of Section 313 of EPCRA, which includes the

reduction and recycling information required by Section 6607 of PPA.

(6) The toxic chemical and hazardous substance release and use reduction goals of section

2(e) of Executive Order 13423 and of Executive Order 13514.

(End of clause)

Alternate I ( May2011) . As prescribed in 23.1005 (b), add the following paragraph (c)(7) to the basic

clause:

(c)(7) The environmental management system as described in section 3(b) of E.O. 13423 and 2(j) of

E.O. 13514.

Alternate II ( May2011) . As prescribed in 23.1005 (c), add the following paragraph (c)(7) to the basic

clause. If Alternate I is also prescribed, renumber paragraph (c)(7) as paragraph (c)(8).

(c)(7) The facility compliance audits as described in section 3(c) of E.O. 13423.
