---
id: 52.212-4
title: "52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Products and Commercial Services"
sidebar_label: "52.212-4"
---

# 52.212-4 Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Products and Commercial Services

As prescribed in [12.301](/part-12/12.301) (b)(3) , insert the following clause:

Contract Terms and Conditions— Commercial Products  and Commercial Services  (Nov 2021)

(a) Inspection/Acceptance . The Contractor shall only tender for acceptance those items that

conform to the requirements of this contract. The Government reserves the right to inspect or test

any supplies or services that have been tendered for acceptance. The Government may require

repair or replacement of nonconforming supplies or reperformance of nonconforming services at no

increase in contract price. If repair/replacement or reperformance will not correct the defects or is

not possible, the Government may seek an equitable price reduction or adequate consideration for

acceptance of nonconforming supplies or services. The Government must exercise its post-

acceptance rights-

(1) Within a reasonable time after the defect was discovered or should have been discovered;

and

(2) Before any substantial change occurs in the condition of the item, unless the change is

due to the defect in the item.

(b) Assignment . The Contractor or its assignee may assign its rights to receive payment due as a

result of performance of this contract to a bank, trust company, or other financing institution,

including any Federal lending agency in accordance with the Assignment of Claims  Act

(31 U.S.C. 3727 ). However, when a third party makes payment ( e.g., use of the Governmentwide

commercial purchase card), the Contractor may not assign its rights to receive payment under this

contract.

(c) Changes . Changes in the terms and conditions of this contract may be made only by written

agreement of the parties.

(d) Disputes . This contract is subject to 41 U.S.C. chapter 71 , Contract Disputes. Failure of the

parties to this contract to reach agreement on any request for equitable adjustment, claim, appeal or

action arising under or relating to this contract shall be a dispute to be resolved in accordance with

the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) [52.233-1](/part-52/52.233-1) , Disputes, which is incorporated herein

by reference. The Contractor shall proceed diligently with performance of this contract, pending

final resolution of any dispute arising under the contract.

(e) Definitions . The clause at FAR [52.202-1](/part-52/52.202-1) , Definitions, is incorporated herein by reference.

(f) Excusable delays . The Contractor shall be liable for default unless nonperformance is caused

by an occurrence beyond the reasonable control of the Contractor and without its fault or negligence

such as, acts of God or the public enemy, acts of the Government in either its sovereign or

contractual capacity, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, unusually severe

weather, and delays of common carriers. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in

writing as soon as it is reasonably possible after the commencement of any excusable delay, setting

forth the full particulars in connection therewith, shall remedy such occurrence with all reasonable

dispatch, and shall promptly give written notice to the Contracting Officer of the cessation of such

occurrence.

(g) Invoice.

(1) The Contractor shall submit an original invoice and three copies (or electronic invoice, if

authorized) to the address designated in the contract to receive invoices . An invoice must include-

(i) Name and address of the Contractor;

(ii) Invoice date and number;

(iii) Contract number, line item number and, if applicable, the order number;

(iv) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price and extended price of the items

delivered;

(v) Shipping number and date of shipment, including the bill of lading number and weight

of shipment if shipped on Government bill of lading;

(vi) Terms of any discount for prompt payment offered;

(vii) Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent;

(viii) Name, title, and phone number of person to notify in event of defective invoice; and

(ix) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The Contractor shall include its TIN on the

invoice only if required elsewhere in this contract.

(x) Electronic funds transfer (EFT) banking information.

(A) The Contractor shall include EFT banking information on the invoice only if

required elsewhere in this contract.

(B) If EFT banking information is not required to be on the invoice, in order for the

invoice to be a proper invoice, the Contractor shall have submitted correct EFT banking information

in accordance with the applicable solicitation provision, contract clause ( e.g., [52.232-33](/part-52/52.232-33) , Payment by

Electronic Funds Transfer-System for Award Management, or [52.232-34](/part-52/52.232-34) , Payment by Electronic

Funds Transfer-Other Than System for Award Management), or applicable agency procedures.

(C) EFT banking information is not required if the Government waived the requirement

to pay by EFT.

(2) Invoices  will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act ( 31 U.S.C.3903 ) and

Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315 .

(h) Patent indemnity . The Contractor shall indemnify the Government and its officers, employees

and agents against liability, including costs, for actual or alleged direct or contributory infringement

of, or inducement to infringe, any United States or foreign patent, trademark or copyright, arising

out of the performance of this contract, provided the Contractor is reasonably notified of such claims

and proceedings.

(i) Payment.-

(1) Items accepted . Payment shall be made for items accepted by the Government that have been

delivered to the delivery destinations set forth in this contract.

(2) Prompt payment . The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt

Payment Act ( 31 U.S.C.3903 ) and prompt payment regulations at 5 CFR Part 1315 .

(3) Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) . If the Government makes payment by EFT, see
