---
id: 15.404-1
title: "15.404-1 Proposal analysis techniques"
sidebar_label: "15.404-1"
---

# 15.404-1 Proposal analysis techniques

(a) General.  The objective of proposal analysis is to ensure that the final agreed-to price  is fair and

reasonable.

(1) The contracting officer  is responsible for evaluating the reasonableness of the offered prices . The

analytical techniques and procedures described in this subsection may be used, singly or in

combination with others, to ensure that the final price  is fair and reasonable. The complexity and

circumstances of each acquisition  should  determine the level of detail of the analysis required.

(2) Price  analysis shall  be used when certified cost or pricing data  are not required (see paragraph

(b) of this subsection and [15.404-3](/part-15/15.404-3) ).

(3) Cost analysis shall  be used to evaluate the reasonableness of individual cost elements when

certified cost or pricing data  are required. Price  analysis should  be used to verify that the overall

price  offered is fair and reasonable.

(4) Cost analysis may also be used to evaluate data other than certified cost or pricing data  to

determine cost reasonableness or cost realism  when a fair and reasonable price  cannot be

determined through price  analysis alone.

(5) The contracting officer  may request the advice and assistance of other experts to ensure that an

appropriate analysis is performed.

(6) Recommendations or conclusions regarding the Government’s review or analysis of an offeror ’s

or contractor’s proposal shall  not be disclosed to the offeror  or contractor without the concurrence

of the contracting officer . Any discrepancy or mistake of fact (such as duplications, omissions, and

errors in computation) contained in the certified cost or pricing data  or data other than certified cost

or pricing data  submitted in support of a proposal shall  be brought to the contracting officer ’s

attention for appropriate action.

(7) The Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) and the Federal Acquisition  Institute (FAI) jointly

prepared a five-volume set of Contract Pricing  Reference Guides to guide pricing  and negotiation

personnel. The five guides are: I Price  Analysis, II Quantitative Techniques for Contract Pricing , III

Cost Analysis, IV Advanced Issues in Contract Pricing , and V Federal Contract Negotiation

Techniques. These references provide detailed discussion and examples applying pricing  policies to

pricing  problems. They are to be used for instruction and professional guidance. However, they are

not directive and should  be considered informational only. They are available via the internet at

http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/cpic/cp/contract_pricing_reference_guides.html .

(b) Price  analysis.

(1) Price  analysis is the process of examining and evaluating a proposed price  without evaluating its

separate cost elements and proposed profit. Unless an exception from the requirement to obtain

certified cost or pricing data  applies under [15.403-1](/part-15/15.403-1) (b)(1) or (b)(2), at a minimum, the contracting

officer  shall  obtain appropriate data, without certification, on the prices  at which the same or similar

items have previously been sold and determine if the data is adequate for evaluating the

reasonableness of the price . Price  analysis may include evaluating data other than certified cost or

pricing data  obtained from the offeror  or contractor when there is no other means for determining a

fair and reasonable price . Contracting officers  shall  obtain data other than certified cost or pricing

data from the offeror  or contractor for all acquisitions  (including commercial acquisitions ), if that is

the contracting officer ’s only means to determine the price  to be fair and reasonable.

(2) The Government may use various price  analysis techniques and procedures to ensure a fair and

reasonable price . Examples of such techniques include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Comparison of proposed prices  received in response to the solicitation . Normally, adequate price

competition establishes a fair and reasonable price  (see [15.403-1](/part-15/15.403-1) (c)(1)).

(ii) Comparison of the proposed prices  to historical prices  paid, whether by the Government or other

than the Government, for the same or similar items. This method may be used for commercial

products  or commercial services  including those “of a type” or when requiring minor modifications

for commercial products .

(A) The prior price  must  be a valid basis for comparison. If there has been a significant time lapse

between the last acquisition  and the present one, if the terms and conditions of the acquisition  are

significantly different, or if the reasonableness of the prior price  is uncertain, then the prior price

may not be a valid basis for comparison.

(B) The prior price  must  be adjusted to account for materially differing terms and conditions,

quantities and market and economic factors. For similar items, the contracting officer  must  also

adjust the prior price  to account for material differences between the similar item and the item

being procured.

(C) Expert technical advice should  be obtained when analyzing similar items, or commercial

products  or commercial services  that are “of a type”, or requiring minor modifications for

commercial products , to ascertain the magnitude of changes required and to assist in pricing  the

required changes

(iii) Use of parametric estimating methods/application of rough yardsticks (such as dollars per pound

or per horsepower, or other units) to highlight significant inconsistencies that warrant additional

pricing  inquiry.

(iv) Comparison with competitive published price  lists, published market prices  of commodities,

similar indexes, and discount or rebate arrangements.

(v) Comparison of proposed prices  with independent Government cost estimates.

(vi) Comparison of proposed prices  with prices  obtained through market research  for the same or

similar items.

(vii) Analysis of data other than certified cost or pricing data  (as defined at [2.101](/part-2/2.101) ) provided by the

offeror .

(3) The first two techniques at [15.404-1](/part-15/15.404-1) (b)(2) are the preferred techniques. However, if the

contracting officer  determines that information on competitive proposed prices  or previous contract

prices  is not available or is insufficient to determine that the price  is fair and reasonable, the

contracting officer  may use any of the remaining techniques as appropriate to the circumstances

applicable to the acquisition .

(4) Value analysis can give insight into the relative worth of a product and the Government may use

it in conjunction with the price  analysis techniques listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(c) Cost analysis.

(1) Cost analysis is the review and evaluation of any separate cost elements and profit or fee in an

offeror ’s or contractor’s proposal, as needed to determine a fair and reasonable price  or to

determine cost realism , and the application of judgment to determine how well the proposed costs

represent what the cost of the contract should  be, assuming reasonable economy and efficiency.

(2) The Government may use various cost analysis techniques and procedures to ensure a fair and

reasonable price , given the circumstances of the acquisition . Such techniques and procedures

include the following:

(i) Verification of cost data or pricing  data and evaluation of cost elements, including-

(A) The necessity for, and reasonableness of, proposed costs, including allowances for contingencies;

(B) Projection of the offeror ’s cost trends, on the basis of current and historical cost or pricing data ;

(C) Reasonableness of estimates generated by appropriately calibrated and validated parametric

models or cost-estimating relationships; and

(D) The application of audited or negotiated indirect cost rates , labor rates, and cost of money or

other factors.

(ii) Evaluating the effect of the offeror ’s current practices on future costs. In conducting this

evaluation, the contracting officer  shall  ensure that the effects of inefficient or uneconomical past

practices are not projected into the future. In pricing  production of recently developed complex

equipment, the contracting officer  should  perform a trend analysis of basic labor and materials, even

in periods of relative price  stability.

(iii) Comparison of costs proposed by the offeror  for individual cost elements with-

(A) Actual costs previously incurred by the same offeror ;

(B) Previous cost estimates from the offeror  or from other offerors  for the same or similar items;

(C) Other cost estimates received in response to the Government’s request;

(D) Independent Government cost estimates by technical personnel; and

(E) Forecasts of planned expenditures.

(iv) Verification that the offeror 's cost submissions are in accordance with the contract cost

principles and procedures in part  31  and, when applicable, the requirements and procedures in 48

CFR chapter 99 , Cost Accounting Standards.

(v) Review to determine whether any cost data or pricing  data, necessary to make the offeror ’s

proposal suitable for negotiation, have not been either submitted or identified in writing  by the

offeror . If there are such data, the contracting officer  shall  attempt to obtain and use them in the

negotiations or make satisfactory allowance for the incomplete data.

(vi) Analysis of the results of any make-or-buy program  reviews, in evaluating subcontract  costs (see
