---
id: 27.404-3
title: "27.404-3 Copyrighted works"
sidebar_label: "27.404-3"
---

# 27.404-3 Copyrighted works

(a) Data  first produced in the performance of a contract.

(1) Generally, the contractor must  obtain permission of the contracting officer  prior to asserting

rights in any copyrighted work containing data first produced in the performance of a contract.

However, contractors are normally authorized, without prior approval of the contracting officer , to

assert copyright in technical or scientific articles based on or containing such data that is published

in academic, technical or professional journals, symposia proceedings and similar works.

(2) The contractor must  make a written request for permission to assert its copyright in works

containing data first produced under the contract. In its request, the contractor should  identify the

data involved or furnish copies of the data for which permission is requested, as well as a statement

as to the intended publication or dissemination media or other purpose for which the permission is

requested. Generally, a contracting officer  should  grant the contractor’s request when copyright

protection will enhance the appropriate dissemination or use of the data unless the-

(i) Data  consist of a report that represents the official views of the agency or that the agency is

required by statute to prepare;

(ii) Data  are intended primarily for internal use by the Government;

(iii) Data  are of the type that the agency itself distributes to the public under an agency program;

(iv) Government determines that limitation on distribution of the data is in the national interest; or

(v) Government determines that the data should  be disseminated without restriction.

(3) Alternate  IV of the clause at [52.227-14](/part-52/52.227-14)  provides a substitute paragraph (c)(1) granting

permission for contractors to assert copyright in any data first produced in the performance of the

contract without the need for any further requests. Except for contracts for management or

operation of Government facilities and contracts and subcontracts in support of programs being

conducted at those facilities or where international agreements require otherwise, Alternate  IV shall

be used in all contracts for basic or applied research to be performed solely by colleges and

universities. Alternate  IV shall  not be used in contracts with colleges and universities if a purpose of

the contract is for development of computer software  for distribution to the public (including use in

solicitations ) by or on behalf of the Government. In addition, Alternate  IV may be used in other

contracts if an agency determines that it is not necessary for a contractor to request further

permission to assert copyright in data first produced in performance of the contract. The contracting

officer  may exclude any data, or items or categories of data, from the provisions of Alternate  IV by

expressly so providing in the contract or by adding a paragraph (d)(4) to the clause, consistent with
